#$Id: README 1218 2008-02-10 00:11:59Z jimk $
Data::Presenter - Reformat database reports

This document refers to version 1.03 of Data::Presenter.  This version was
released February 10, 2008.  If you used versions of Data::Presenter prior to
version 1.00, please read the "Notice of Change of Interface" in the
documentation, as interfaces to several methods have changed and changes need
to be made in the Data::Presenter subclasses from which new() is called.

To install this module on your system, place the tarball archive file in a 
temporary directory and call the following:

% gunzip Data-Presenter-1.03.tar.gz
% tar xf Data-Presenter-1.03.tar
% cd Data-Presenter-1.03
% perl Makefile.PL
% make
% make test
% make install

To better understand the tests as they are run, you may substitute the 
following for the next-to-last-line in the sequence of commands above:

% make test TEST_VERBOSE=1

If you are installing this module over any earlier version, you may 
substitute the following for the last line in the sequence of commands 
above:

% make install UNINST=1

If you are installing this module on a Win32 system with 'nmake', 
substitute 'nmake' for 'make' in the sequence of commands above.

The author has found that trying to install this distribution with 
(a) older (pre-6.16) versions of ExtUtils::MakeMaker, (b) on older 
versions of Perl (e.g., 5.6.0), and (c) on older Linux distributions 
(e.g., RedHat Linux 7.3) can result in a situation where the module's 
Plain Old Documentation, when transformed into manual pages, is not 
automatically placed in the optimal location for reading thru 'man' 
and 'info' (even though it reads perfectly through 'perldoc').  If you 
experience this problem, issue the following at the command line 
(adapted from a suggestion by Michael Schwern on the module-authors 
mailing list):

% perl Makefile.PL INSTALLSITEMAN3DIR=/usr/share/man/man3

Data::Presenter uses the Carp module which is part of the standard Perl 
distribution.  Data::Presenter also uses the List::Compare module by 
the same author.  This module is available from CPAN; versions 0.15 
and later should be used.  Data::Presenter's test suite uses CPAN modules
IO::Capture and IO::Capture::Extended.  These modules are pure Perl and should
install easily with the cpan utility.

For testing purposes, this distribution comes with four sample 
Data::Presenter subclass modules (now located under the t/ directory) 
which illustrate what is required for such a subclass.  In 
addition, the distribution comes with four configuration files, one for 
each sample subclass, which are required to construct a new 
Data::Presenter subclass object.  The distribution comes with four 
sourcefiles, one per subclass.  These sample subclasses are fully 
installed when you install Data::Presenter.  Once you master the 
principles of creating a Data::Presenter invocant subclass you may 
delete these sample files.

Author:  James E. Keenan (jkeenan@cpan.org).
Creation date:  October 25, 2001.  
Last modification date:  February 10, 2008.  
Copyright (c) 2001-2005 James E. Keenan.  United States.  All rights 
reserved.  This is free software and may be distributed under the 
same terms as Perl itself.
