Lingua-HU-Numbers

This Perl module is used for turning numbers into it's Hungarian text
representation, for example "32" into "harminckettö".

The module requires Perl 5.6.0 or newer* and has no non-core module
dependencies.

* In fact the only thing I know of which makes 5.6.0 required is "our" 
declarations, but since I can't test anything below 5.6.0 and I don't know 
the complete delta, I've drawn the line at 5.6.0. If someone feels making 
this module work below 5.6.0, patch(es) are welcome!

GRAMMAR

Hungarian grammar rules state that numbers 2000 or below use no hyphen,
and above 2000 they use hyphen(s) unless the number is an integer amount of
thousands or integer amount of millions.

Numbers are divided into groups of three measured from the end of the number
and the hyphens are placed between those groups.

In the case of 100 and 1000 the textual representation of 1 - "egy" is not
written, only "száz" (hundred) and 1000 (thousand) instead of "egyszáz" and
"egyezer". This applies to numbers in the format of 1xx and 1xxx, but not
elsewhere.

There may be more quirks unimplemented - I'm not a linguist.
If you are one, correct me given that I'm mistaken in something.

Source of grammar rules: ISBN 963 05 6810 1 - "A magyar helyesírás szabályai"
(Rules of hungarian grammar).

INSTALLATION

To install this module, run the following commands:

    cpansign -v         # optional; see SIGNATURE for details
    perl Makefile.PL
    make
    make test
    make install


SUPPORT AND DOCUMENTATION

After installing, you can find documentation for this module with the perldoc command.

    perldoc Lingua::HU::Numbers

You can also look for information at:

    Search CPAN
        http://search.cpan.org/dist/Lingua-HU-Numbers

    CPAN Request Tracker:
        http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/Bugs.html?Dist=Lingua-HU-Numbers

    AnnoCPAN, annotated CPAN documentation:
        http://annocpan.org/dist/Lingua-HU-Numbers

    CPAN Ratings:
        http://cpanratings.perl.org/d/Lingua-HU-Numbers

COPYRIGHT AND LICENCE

Copyright (C) 2006, 2007 Bálint Szilakszi

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
