PYPERL TODO
-----------

On Win32: change hardcoded DllMain() to python's frozen_dllmain mechanism?

Python::Object wrappings for lists and dictionaries should perhaps
always evaluate to a TRUE value??

Python::coerce

Python::dir

Python::execfile

Python::isinstance/issubclass

Python::x?range

Python::slice

Keyword behaviour should perlhaps be implemented in Python::funcall()
instead of the AUTOLOAD.  That way it would also work when callable
objects are called directly through "&{}" overloading.

Python::Err::Exception(Python:Err::AssertionError) should return 1.
Need issubclass() kind of check.

Python::{getattr,getitem,funcall} should perhaps also unwrap sequences
and mappings in list context so they get compatible with perl
arrays/hashes.

perl.eval("") does not raise an exception on syntax errors.
This is actually a perl in perl's perl_eval_sv() API.

perl.require() could return an object that provided access to names
withing the required namespace.  E.g.:

    m = perl.require("MIME::Base64")
    m.encode("foo")

   Problem: Should the getattr() return static or class methods?
   Could make m.new() a class method any anything else plain
   functions.  Does not work too well with DBI.  Could have
   a perl.require_class("DBI") function then....

Use magic to clear up PerlPyErr objects.

Make it possible to call perl.eval() in array context.

Implement array.sort()

Implement compare function for svrv_objects.

'from perl.digest.md5 import md5_hex': can we make this work?

When doing direct maniplulation of perl data from python we might risk
getting a croak.  Especially if the data underneath happens to be
tied.  Substitute all calls to the perl API in svrv_object with safe
try_* versions.

Python access to tied perl stuff.  I am sure there are stuff in
svrv_object that does not work as well for tied arrays or tied hashes.

Mapping of Python Unicode strings to SvPVs with SvUTF8?

Make perl visible in tracebacks of exceptions that pass through perl.

Tranparently pass file objects between langauges.  Both seems to have
FILE* to be compatible with.

Make 'python in perl' build without manual tweaks.

Make it possible to have 'perl in python' and 'python in perl'
installed together.

Improve test suite.
  - test the lock stuff
  - make multitreaded tests
