LaTeX-Table version 1.0.6

This module supports multipage tables via the xtab and the longtable package.
For publication quality tables it utilizes the booktabs package. It also
supports the tabularx and tabulary packages for nicer fixed-width tables.
Furthermore, it supports the colortbl package for colored tables optimized for
presentations.  The powerful new ctable package is supported and especially
recommended when footnotes are needed. LaTeX::Table ships with some
predefined, good looking themes.

INSTALLATION

To install this module with CPAN (recommended), just type

    cpan LaTeX::Table

If you have never used the cpan command before, you probably have to answer a
few configuration questions. This command will automatically install missing
modules required by LaTeX::Table.

To install this module without CPAN, run the following commands:

    perl Build.PL
    ./Build
    ./Build test
    ./Build install

If you get a warning about missing modules, install them manually or use the
cpan command (see above).

Alternatively, to install with ExtUtils::MakeMaker, you can use the following
commands:

    perl Makefile.PL
    make
    make test
    make install


Now start the script generate_examples.pl in the examples directory of this
distibution. 

    perl generate_examples.pl
    
This script generates some LaTeX files with some example tables.
Now please compile these examples with LaTeX and check if all tables look ok:

    pdflatex examples.tex 

PROGRAMS

This module ships with two small utilities. The first, csv2pdf is a CSV to PDF
converter. It is only about 100 lines of code short and only meant as an 
example application, but it is already very powerful. It requires Getopt::Long,
Text::CSV, LaTeX::Encode and LaTeX::Driver, which are not installed during the
installation of this module. 

The second utility is ltpretty. It takes a lazy formatted LaTeX table from 
STDIN (typically piped from Vim or emacs) and outputs a completely formatted
table. This makes this module not only useful for automatically generated
reports, but also saves a lot of typing work in creating custom tables.


DEPENDENCIES

Carp
Module::Pluggable
Moose
MooseX::FollowPBP
English
Scalar::Util
Template

