Authen-Prepare version 0.05

DESCRIPTION

    Authen::Prepare sets up authentication credentials for a specific
    hostname, username, and password using a combination of stored
    information and user prompts. These credentials can be used in other
    scripts or modules that require authentication information. Using this
    module allows these other scripts to be flexible in their usage of
    authentication information without recoding user prompts or storing
    passwords in the code.

    The simplest use of this module is to create the initial object it with
    no arguments; the credentials will be built from a set of user prompts.

    A more full-featured use of this module is to specify all authentication
    information ahead of time using a password file and command-line
    arguments or environment variables. The initial object can then be
    created with three named arguments (hostname, username, and passfile)
    and the credentials for the specified hostname and username will be
    extracted from the password file. This allows the calling script to be
    used in an automated environment.

    Any combination of the named arguments can be provided; the user will be
    prompted for any missing information.

  Password File
    The password file must not have any group or world permissions in order
    to be usable by this module. Each line of the password file should
    contain the hostname, username, and password separated by a colon.

    Wildcards are supported in the hostname field only. This allows a
    default host to be specified.

    Comments may be added by prefixing a line with the '#' character.
    (Inline comments are not supported at this time.)

    NOTE: The password file is read from top to bottom so only the first
    match will be returned.

      Example:

      # this is a comment
      hostname1:username1:password1
      hostname2:username2:password2
      host*:username:password
      # default hostname
      *:username:password

INSTALLATION

To install this module, run the following commands:

    perl Makefile.PL
    make
    make test
    make install


Alternatively, to install with Module::Build, you can use the following
commands:

    perl Build.PL
    ./Build
    ./Build test
    ./Build install



DEPENDENCIES

    IO::Prompt
    Readonly
    Text::Glob


PROJECT HOME PAGE

http://authen-prepare.googlecode.com


COPYRIGHT AND LICENCE

Copyright (C) 2007, David Narayan

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

$Id$
