NAME

    Archive::Libarchive::Any - Perl bindings to libarchive

VERSION

    version 0.0900

SYNOPSIS

     use Archive::Libarchive::Any;

DESCRIPTION

    This module provides bindings for libarchive using either
    Archive::Libarchive::XS or Archive::Libarchive::FFI. The interface is
    identical either way.

    The preference and install and run time is at the discretion of the
    author of this distribution, and is subject to change with reasonable
    notice in the documentation and Changes file.

    Generally the XS version will be preferred, and the FFI version will be
    used if the XS version is unavailable.

    If you set the environment variable ARCHIVE_LIBARCHIVE_ANY to XS or FFI
    it will prefer that implementation over the other (this is used both at
    install and runtime).

SUPPORT

    If you find bugs, please open an issue on the project GitHub
    repository:

    https://github.com/plicease/Archive-Libarchive-Any/issues?state=open

    If you have a fix, please open a pull request. You can see the
    CONTRIBUTING file for traps, hints and pitfalls.

SEE ALSO

    The intent of this module is to provide a low level fairly thin direct
    interface to libarchive, on which a more Perlish OO layer could easily
    be written.

    Archive::Libarchive::XS

    Archive::Libarchive::FFI

      Both of these provide the same API to libarchive via
      Alien::Libarchive, but the bindings are implemented in XS for one and
      via FFI::Sweet for the other.

    Archive::Libarchive::Any

      Offers whichever is available, either the XS or FFI version. The
      actual algorithm as to which is picked is subject to change,
      depending on with version seems to be the most reliable.

    Archive::Peek::Libarchive

    Archive::Extract::Libarchive

      Both of these provide a higher level, less complete perlish interface
      to libarchive.

    Archive::Tar

    Archive::Tar::Wrapper

      Just some of the many modules on CPAN that will read/write tar
      archives.

    Archive::Zip

      Just one of the many modules on CPAN that will read/write zip
      archives.

    Archive::Any

      A module attempts to read/write multiple formats using different
      methods depending on what perl modules are installed, and preferring
      pure perl modules.

AUTHOR

    Graham Ollis <plicease@cpan.org>

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

    This software is copyright (c) 2013 by Graham Ollis.

    This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
    the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

