NAME
    Dist::Zilla::Plugin::SignReleaseNotes - Create and signs a 'Release'
    notes file

VERSION
    version 0.0003

DESCRIPTION
    This plugin will sign a 'Release' file that includes:

      1. Git commits since the last tag
      2. the sha256 checksum of the file that is being distributed to CPAN

    the file is then signed using Module::Signature.

    The resulting file can be used as the Release information for GitHub or
    similar.

    This plugin should appear after any other AfterBuild plugin in your
    "dist.ini" file

ATTRIBUTES
    sign
        A string value. If "always" then a signature will be created after
        an archive is created. If "always" then the 'Release' file will be
        signed after the release. Default is "always"

        This attribute can be overridden by an environment variable "DZSIGN"

METHODS
    after_release
        The main processing function includes getting the git information.
        Should likely be split up.

    create_release_file
        Create's the plaintext Release file contents.

    do_sign
        Signs the 'Release' file to Module::Signature. Unfortunately we
        cannot use the Module::Signature::sign function as it gets its
        plaintext from the list of files that are normally used.

    sub get_git_checksums_and_titles
        Gets the short version of the checksums and the titles of each git
        commit since the most recent tag that was found in the repo.

    get_checksum
        Get's the checksum of the file being released. Expects the filename
        and returns the checksum (currently sha256 only).

    get_name
        Get's the name of the Distribution being released. This takes it
        from the filename. There is likely a better way to obtain it.

    get_version
        Get's the version of the Distribution being released. This takes it
        from the $self->{zilla}->version. There is likely a better way to
        obtain it.

AUTHOR
      Timothy Legge <timlegge@cpan.org>

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
    This software is copyright (c) 2021 by Timothy Legge.

    This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
    the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

AUTHOR
    Timothy Legge

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
    This software is copyright (c) 2021 by Timothy Legge.

    This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
    the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

