This illustration was used as figure 9 in our open-access paper:
http://www.palarch.nl/wp-content/Wedel-and-Taylor-2013-Neural-spine-bifurcation-in-sauropod-dinosaurs-PJVP-10-11.pdf


	Wedel, Mathew J., and Michael P. Taylor. 2013a. Neural spine
	bifurcation in sauropod dinosaurs of the Morrison Formation:
	ontogenetic and phylogenetic implications. PalArch's Journal
	of Vertebrate Palaeontology 10(1):1-34.
	
The figure caption is:

	Figure 9. Degree of neural spine bifurcation of presacral
	vertebrae in well-preserved Morrison Formation sauropod
	specimens representing several taxonomic groups. In all taxa
	with deep bifurcations, these are concentrated around the
	cervico-dorsal transition. 'No data' markers may mean that the
	vertebrae are not preserved (e.g., posterior dorsals of
	Suuwassea emilieae ANS 21122), that the degree of bifurcation
	cannot be assessed (e.g., anterior cervicals of Barosaurus
	lentus AMNH 6341), or that the serial positions of the
	vertebrae are uncertain so they contribute no information on
	serial changes in bifurcation (e.g., the four cervical
	vertebrae known for Barosaurus lentus YPM 429). The
	Camarasaurus specimens are roughly in ontogenetic order:
	C. lentus CM 11338 is a juvenile, C. grandis YPM 1905 and
	GMNH-PV 101/WPL 1995, and C. supremus AMNH 5761 are adults,
	and C. lewisi BYU 9047 is geriatric. See text for sources of
	data.

It was the first illustration produced by this software, and the
motivation for writing it.

Our goal was to represent how deeply split the neural spines of the
vertebrae are in the various taxa. We did this in two ways

1. By designing glyphs that show either a deep or shallow cleft, or a
   small notch, or no splitting at all;

2. By using colour to generate a "heat-map" show the degree of
   splitting (red hottest, then orange, then yellow, and green
   coolest).

The final published version of this illustration was enhanced by hand
in two ways (both by Matt):

1. The addition of a key at the top, explaining the meaning of each
   glyph.

2. The shape of the two most anterior vertebra was edited by hand to
   suggest the shape of the atlas/axis combination.

The published version, incorporating the results of this hand-hacking,
can be seen at
http://svpow.com/papers-by-sv-powsketeers/wedel-and-taylor-2013-on-sauropod-neural-spine-bifurcation/

It would have been better for both of these additions to be done by
VertFigure rather than needing a manual pass afterwards: if we'd had
more time we probably would have enhanced the program accordingly, but
we were in a hurry to get submitted. A future release might fix this.
