NAME
    CPAN::Local - Hack custom CPAN repos

VERSION
    version 0.010

DESCRIPTION
    CPAN::Local is a framework for creating custom CPAN implementations. It
    is to your private repositories as Dist::Zilla is to your distributions.
    The individual tasks related to mirror management are handled by
    separate plugins, and those plugins can be combined to achieve the
    desired behavior, or new ones can be written where further
    customizations is needed.

    There are other libraries for managing a local CPAN mirror, but while
    all of them focus on functionality, CPAN::Local focuses entirely on
    extensibility. It is insipered by Dist::Zilla and attempts to provide
    sufficient flexibility to acommodate the strangest of needs.

    This document describes the "CPAN::Local" class, which represents a
    local repository with plugins configured to perform actions on it. For
    more documentation on how to use this library see CPAN::Local::Manual.

ATTRIBUTES
  config_filename
    Base name of the configuration file. Default is "cpanlocal".

  config
    A Config::MVP::Sequence representing the mirror configuration. Normally
    generated by reading the configuration file (see "config_filename").

  root_namespace
    The root namespaces for plugins and roles that will be loaded. Default
    is "CPAN::Local".

  distribution_base_class
    The base class for distribution objects. Default is
    "CPAN::Local::Distribution".

  root
    The root directory of the repository. Assumes the current working
    directory by default.

  logger
    Logging facility. An instance of Log::Dispatchouli by default.

  plugins
    All plugins requested by the "config", required and instantiated.

METHODS
  plugins_with($role_name)
    Returns all plugins that implement a given role. Only the last portion
    of the role name should be passed as an argument - i.e. if $role_name is
    "Index", then all plugins implementing "CPAN::Local::Role::Index" will
    be returned.

AUTHOR
    Peter Shangov <pshangov@yahoo.com>

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
    This software is copyright (c) 2012 by Venda, Inc..

    This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
    the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

