NAME
    RT-Extension-HelpDesk - Default Help desk configuration for Request
    Tracker

RT VERSION
    Works with RT 6.0.0 and newer. Install the latest 0.* version for older
    RTs.

INSTALLATION
    perl Makefile.PL
    make
    make install
        May need root permissions

    Edit your /opt/rt6/etc/RT_SiteConfig.pm
        Add this line:

            Plugin('RT::Extension::HelpDesk');

        If you don't add the Plugin line and save, you will see errors in
        the next step.

    make initdb
        Only run this the first time you install this module.

        If you run this twice, you may end up with duplicate data in your
        database.

        If you are upgrading this module, check for upgrading instructions
        in case changes need to be made to your database.

    Clear your mason cache
            rm -rf /opt/rt6/var/mason_data/obj

    Restart your webserver

DESCRIPTION
    One common use for Request Tracker (RT) is tracking user issues,
    typically related to IT services. The "help desk" is often a department,
    either a designated help desk with many agents for large organizations,
    or sometimes only a one or two people who handle all IT services for a
    smaller organization.

    RT is used to track incoming user requests so they don't get lost and
    can be assigned to individual people to handle. It's also useful for
    gathering general reporting on the volume of user IT requests and what
    types of issues seem to generate the most issues.

    This extension provides an initialdata
    <https://docs.bestpractical.com/rt/latest/initialdata.html/> file to
    configure a queue with some sensible default rights configuration for a
    typical help desk. Once installed, you can then edit the configuration
    to best suit your needs.

    A video is available <https://youtu.be/3Yuqh7zGBJ0> that shows a sample
    RT with this extension installed and it should give you a good idea what
    will be added to your RT.

  Support Queue
    After installing, you'll see a new queue called Support for tracking all
    of the incoming help desk requests. You can change the name to anything
    you like after installing. In a typical configuration, you will also
    want to assign an RT email address, like support@example.com or
    helpdesk@example.com to create tickets in this queue.

  Rights
    Some typical initial rights are set on the Support queue. The system
    group "Everyone" gets a default set of rights to allow end users to
    create tickets. Everyone is system group provided with RT, and as the
    name implies it encompasses every user in RT.

    These rights are usually the minimum needed for a typical support desk.
    Anyone is able to write into our support address with a help desk
    question, and they can reply and follow-up on that request if we send
    them some questions.

    The extension also grants "ShowTicket" to the Requestor role. If your
    end users have access to RT's self service interface, this allows them
    to see only tickets where they are the Requestor, which should be the
    tickets they opened.

    Our internal support representatives will need many more rights to work
    on tickets. To make it easy to add and remove access for staff users,
    this extension creates Support group. Rights are granted to the group,
    so membership in the group is all a user needs to get those rights.

  Support Lifecycle
    RT allows you to create and configure custom workflows for each queue in
    the system. In RT a ticket workflow is known as a Lifecycle
    <https://docs.bestpractical.com/rt/latest/customizing/lifecycles.html>.
    This extension provies a custom lifecycle called "support" that defines
    the various statuses a ticket can be in.

    The custom statuses "waiting for customer" and "waiting for support"
    trigger some automation around replying to support requests.

    The automation applied to the support queue is designed to allow support
    staff to more easily keep track of support requests that need attention.
    There are two new Scrips that do the following:

    On Requestor Correspond Update Status To "waiting for support"
        Updates the ticket status to "waiting for support" when a requestor
        replies to a ticket. The requestor is typically the end user who is
        asking for support.

    On Non-Requestor Correspond Update Status To "waiting for customer"
        Updates the ticket status to "waiting for customer" when a user who
        is not a requestor on the ticket replies on the ticket. This usually
        means the support representative in charge of the ticket sent an
        email to the customer and is waiting for some feedback.

  Custom Fields
    RT allows you to define custom fields on tickets, which can be anything
    you need to record and track. This extension provides two common to a
    help desk, Severity and Service Impacted.

    Severity is a dropdown with typical High, Medium, Low values. As an RT
    admin, you can change these values or add to them at Admin > Custom
    Fields, then click on Severity.

    Service Impacted is an autocomplete type field, which means users can
    type in the box and if there is a defined value, it will autocomplete in
    a menu below the field. If the user needs to add a value that hasn't
    been used before, they can type in a completely new value. If you would
    prefer this to be a dropdown like Severity, you can change this in the
    admin section also.

  Support Dashboard
    This extension creates a dashboard called "Support", accessible to any
    member of the Support Group. This dashboard has a default saved search
    called "Highest severity tickets waiting on support".

    As the name suggests, this saved search shows all tickets waiting for
    support and displays them in order by severity, so the most important
    will be at the top.

  Next Steps
    This extension provides a good starting point and you can start using it
    right away. Here are some additional things you can do to customize your
    configuration:

    *   Create new user accounts for other staff and add them to the Support
        Group. You might also remove the root user if that user account
        won't be involved in support.

    *   Update the custom fields Severity and Service Impacted, changing the
        values in the dropdowns or adding other custom fields that better
        fit your system.

    *   Edit your templates to customize the default messages you send to
        users. You can find templates at Admin > Global > Templates. For
        example, the "Autoreply in HTML" is the default template that goes
        to users when they open a ticket.

    *   Users working primarily in support can edit their preferences and
        set Support as their default queue.

    *   Users can select Reports > Update this menu and add the Support
        dashboard to their reports menu. The RT administrator can do this
        for all users as well.

        (In RT 4.4, the menu is Home > Update this menu.)

AUTHOR
    Best Practical Solutions, LLC <modules@bestpractical.com>

    All bugs should be reported via email to
        bug-RT-Extension-HelpDesk@rt.cpan.org
    or via the web at
        http://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=RT-Extension-HelpDesk
LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT
    This software is Copyright (c) 2021-2025 by Best Practical LLC

    This is free software, licensed under:

      The GNU General Public License, Version 2, June 1991

