NAME
    Catalyst::Plugin::Params::Demoronize - convert common UTF-8 and
    Windows-1252 characters to their ASCII equivalents

SYNOPSIS
      # Be sure and use the Unicode plugin if you want to handle Unicode
      # replacement.
      use Catalyst qw(Unicode Demoronize);

      # Optionally enable replacement of common unicode "smart" characters.
      MyApp->config->{demoronize} = { replace_unicode => 1 }

DESCRIPTION
    to borrow a few passages from the documentation packaged with john
    walker's demoronizer.pl:

        ...as is usually the case when you encounter something shoddy in the
        vicinity of a computer, Microsoft incompetence and gratuitous
        incompatibility were to blame. Western language HTML documents are
        written in the ISO 8859-1 Latin-1 character set, with a specified
        set of escapes for special characters. Blithely ignoring this
        prescription, as usual, Microsoft use their own "extension" to
        Latin-1, in which a variety of characters which do not appear in
        Latin-1 are inserted in the range 0x82 through 0x95--this having the
        merit of being incompatible with both Latin-1 and Unicode, which
        reserve this region for additional control characters.

        These characters include open and close single and double quotes, em
        and en dashes, an ellipsis and a variety of other things you've been
        dying for, such as a capital Y umlaut and a florin symbol. Well,
        okay, you say, if Microsoft want to have their own little
        incompatible character set, why not? Because it doesn't stop
        there--in their inimitable fashion (who would want to?)--they
        aggressively pollute the Web pages of unknowing and innocent victims
        worldwide with these characters, with the result that the owners of
        these pages look like semi-literate morons when their pages are
        viewed on non-Microsoft platforms (or on Microsoft platforms, for
        that matter, if the user has selected as the browser's font one of
        the many TrueType fonts which do not include the incompatible
        Microsoft characters).

        You see, "state of the art" Microsoft Office applications sport a
        nifty feature called "smart quotes." (Rule of thumb--every time
        Microsoft use the word "smart," be on the lookout for something
        dumb). This feature is on by default in both Word and PowerPoint,
        and can be disabled only by finding the little box buried among the
        dozens of bewildering option panels these products contain. If
        enabled, and you type the string,

            "Halt," he cried, "this is the police!"

        "smart quotes" transforms the ASCII quote characters automatically
        into the incompatible Microsoft opening and closing quotes. ASCII
        single and double quotes are similarly transformed (even though
        ASCII already contains apostrophe and single open quote characters),
        and double hyphens are replaced by the incompatible em dash symbol.
        What other horrors occur, I know not. If the user notices this
        happening at all, their reaction might be "Thank you Billy-boy--that
        looks ever so much nicer," not knowing they've been set up to look
        like a moron to folks all over the world.

    these characters are commonly inserted into form elements via cut and
    paste operations. in many cases, they are converted to UTF-8 by the
    browser. this plugin will replace both the unicode characters AND the
    Windows-1252 characters with sane ASCII equivalents.

UNICODE
    Demoronize assumes that you are using Catalyst::Plugin::Unicode to
    convert incoming parameters into Unicode characters. If you are not and
    enable optional "replace_unicode", you may have issues.

CONFIG
  replace_unicode
    If this flag is enabled (it is off by default) then commonly substituted
    Unicode characters will be converted to their ASCII equivalents.

  replace_map
    A map of Unicode characters and their ASCII equivalents that will be
    swapped. This can be overridden, but defaults to:

METHODS
    prepare_parameters
        Converts parameters.

AUTHOR
    Mike Eldridge <diz@cpan.org>

CONTRIBUTORS
    *   Cory Watson <gphat@cpan.org>

    *   Chisel Wright <chisel@cpan.org>

    *   Michele Beltrame <arthas@cpan.org>

