from:
http://www.microsoft.com/mscorp/ip/format/xmlpatentlicense.asp

Office 2003 XML Reference Schema Patent License
Published: December 3, 2003 | Updated: January 27, 2005
 
This document is intended to expand upon the rights that Microsoft grants to certain Microsoft® Office 2003 XML schemas. As 
described in this document, the technical specifications for the schemas include rights under copyright to make reproductions 
and to display and distribute those reproductions, subject to certain terms and conditions. The purpose of this document is to 
provide a patent license to individuals and organizations interested in implementing software programs that can read and write 
files that conform to such specifications.

Please read this entire document carefully to understand your rights.

Office Schemas
Microsoft Office 2003 includes support for certain XML "schemas" known as Wordprocessing ML, Spreadsheet ML, and FormTemplate 
Schemas. For purposes of this document, these schemas will be referred to as the "Office Schemas." In general terms, schemas are 
document structures used for presentation and layout of XML data.

Copies of the technical specifications for the Office Schemas, which include an associated copyright notice and license, can be 
found at http://msdn.microsoft.com/office/understanding/xmloffice/default.aspx.

Patent License
Microsoft may have patents and/or patent applications that are necessary for you to license in order to make, sell, or 
distribute software programs that read or write files that comply with the Microsoft specifications for the Office Schemas.

Except as provided below, Microsoft hereby grants you a royalty-free license under Microsoft's Necessary Claims to make, use, 
sell, offer to sell, import, and otherwise distribute Licensed Implementations solely for the purpose of reading and writing 
files that comply with the Microsoft specifications for the Office Schemas. A "Licensed Implementation" means only those 
specific portions of a software product that read and write files that are fully compliant with the specifications for the 
Office Schemas. The term "Necessary Claims" means claims of a patent or patent application (including continuations, 
continuations-in-part, or reissues) that are owned or controlled by Microsoft and that are necessarily infringed by reading or 
writing files pursuant to the requirements of the Office Schemas. A claim is necessarily infringed only when it is not possible 
to avoid infringing when conforming to the specification. Notwithstanding the foregoing, "Necessary Claims" do not include any 
claims: (i) that would require a payment of royalties by Microsoft to unaffiliated third parties; (ii) covering any Enabling 
Technologies that may be necessary to make or use any product incorporating a Licensed Implementation, or (iii) covering the 
reading or writing of files other than those complying with the requirements of the specifications for the Office Schemas. 
"Enabling Technologies" means technologies that may be necessary to make or use any product or portion of a product that 
complies with the Microsoft specifications for the Office Schemas, but are not expressly set forth or required in those 
specifications, such as general word processing, spreadsheet or presentation features or functionality, operating system 
technology, programming interfaces, protocols, and the like.

If you distribute, license or sell a Licensed Implementation, this license is conditioned upon you requiring that the following 
notice be prominently displayed in all copies and derivative works of your source code and in copies of the documentation and 
licenses associated with your Licensed Implementation:

"This product may incorporate intellectual property owned by Microsoft Corporation. The terms and conditions upon which 
Microsoft is licensing such intellectual property may be found at 
http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/en-us/odcXMLRef/html/odcXMLRefLegalNotice.asp."

By including the above notice in a Licensed Implementation, you will be deemed to have accepted the terms and conditions of this 
license. You are not licensed to distribute a Licensed Implementation under license terms and conditions that prohibit the terms 
and conditions of this license.

You are not licensed to sublicense or transfer your rights.

By way of clarification of the foregoing, given the unique role of government institutions, end users will not violate this 
license by merely reading government documents that constitute files that comply with the Microsoft specifications for the 
Office Schemas, or by using (solely for the purpose of reading such files) any software that enables them to do so. The term 
"government documents" includes public records.

Microsoft reserves the right to terminate this license grant if you sue Microsoft or any of Microsoft's affiliates for patent 
infringement over claims relating to reading or writing of files that comply with the Office Schemas. This license is perpetual 
subject to this reservation.

You should consult applicable export control laws and regulations to determine whether they apply to your Licensed 
Implementation.

Legal Disclaimers
THE PATENT LICENSE GRANTED HEREIN IS PROVIDED "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND. ALL WARRANTIES, DUTIES AND CONDITIONS, 
EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR 
PURPOSE, TITLE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT ARE HEREBY DISCLAIMED.

MICROSOFT AND ITS AFFILIATES SHALL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES ARISING FROM OR RELATED TO THIS LICENSE, INCLUDING INDIRECT, 
INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR SPECIAL DAMAGES EVEN IF MICROSOFT OR ITS AFFILIATES HAVE BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY 
OF SUCH DAMAGES IN ADVANCE.

Reservation of Rights
All rights not expressly granted in this license are reserved by Microsoft. No additional rights are granted by implication or 
estoppel or otherwise. Nothing herein grants any rights to use or display any Microsoft trademarks or logos.
 

