Games/Object version 0.11
=========================

IMPORTANT NOTE TO USERS OF VERSIONS 0.05 AND PREVIOUS

The latest version of the module makes some major redesigns to the APIs
and internal structure. Your code will have to change with 0.10. The redesign
was extensive enough that I could not preserve backward compatibility. These
changes are based on concrete feedback from other users either attempting to
use the module or expressing an interest in it.

The new design should be more stable than the previous and should not undergo
any further paradigm shifts. The module it still alpha, but hopefully will
progress to beta by version 0.20.

INTRODUCTION

This module is intended to serve as a base class for game objects. It is
designed to take much of the burden from the game programmer by providing the
mechanics for storing and manipulating game data objects.

The functionality of this module can be divided into the following sections:

  Attributes

    This are arbitrary, named data items on an object. Rules for modification
    of attribute values, including automated update and persistent modifiers,
    can be set up with ease. For example, you could set up an attribute such
    that:

    - It stores its value as a decimal, but polling the attribute always rounds
      to the nearest integer.

    - It is confined to the range of 0 to 100, and attempts to modify it outside
      that range are truncated to the minimum or maximum automatically.

    - It automatically tends towards the maximum of 100 by 1 each time the
      object is processed.

    - A user-defined chunk of code is called if the value falls to 0.

    Modifications of attributes can be made to:

    - Persist such that they can be cancelled later and revert the attribute
      value back to what it was before the modifier was applied.

    - Persist but automatically time out after a given amount of time.

    - Persist but have its initial effect be delayed a certain amount of time.

    - Invoke used-defined chunks of code when changes to attributes applied.

  Flags

    Arbitrary, used-defined flags can be placed on objects. These flags can
    be made such that user-defined code is invoked when a flag changes value.

  Load/Save

    Object data can be saved to an arbitrary file and then read back in later
    to produce an exact copy of the object. This essentially provides the bulk
    of save/load game functionality. You can even set up customized code to
    execute each time an object loads/saves to read/write additional data.

  Events

    The user can define arbitrary code to execute when modifications are
    made to objects or their attributes. Some examples of these are mentioned
    above. Events on attributes share the same inheritance as attribute values,
    which means you can define a common event trigger on a master object and
    have lots of other objects inherit from it and use the event as if it were
    defined on the individual objects.

  Object Management

    As part of the redesign with version 0.10, management of the overall list of
    objects is now implemented by a separate manager module, allowing you to
    maintain many independent groups of objects. This also makes it far easier
    for the user to extend the object management functionality, merely by
    subclassing the manager class.


CHANGES FROM LAST VERSION

This is a patch release only to fix critical bugs in 0.10. See the Changes
file for details.


INSTALLATION

This is packaged as a standard CPAN module, thus you ought to be able to
install the module with the following steps:

   perl Makefile.PL
   make
   make test
   make install

This module is pure Perl code, thus there is no C code to be compiled.


DEPENDENCIES

Perl 5.6.0 or better is required. Perl 5.6.1 is recommended.

You will also need IO::String 1.02 or better (older versions will NOT work),
available from CPAN.


BUG REPORTS

This is an ALPHA release. Please send all bug reports to p.stewart@comcast.net.
Suggestions at future functionality are also welcome.


COPYRIGHT AND LICENCE

Copyright (C) 2002,2003 Peter J. Stewart, all rights reserved.

This module is distributable and modifiable under the
GPL and the Artistic Licenses.
