
CLASSES

A basic rundown of the classes and their base purposes and
capabilities.

Frame
------

Frames can either be constructed from scratch with a single call to
the constructor, from a <header, payload> pair (again through the
constructor), and from a header, with payload added later.  The first
and the last are the methods most commonly used.

It does not yet support construction from a stream, leaving that task
to a different class (Session).

It only contains information about the frame.

It is the union of all known frame types (including ANS and SEQ), so
is generally not to be subclassed.

Message
--------

Messages may be constructed from scratch, or from one or more frames.
Messages know how to render themselves into frames.  They also do the
mime encoding/decoding to make available the payload (encoded) and
content (not encoded).

Messages only contain information about the message.  The sequence
number should be set at send time.  The message number for MSG
messages should also be set at send time, although for other message
types, that must be set at creation time (or anytime before sending
it).

Messages are fairly straightforward, except when it comes to the exact
point of sending them.  The main method involved is the next_frame
method.  There is a question of what next_frame does vs. what the
caller (send_message) does.  One approach would be for the message to
have a reference to its Channel, or be passed a reference to its
Channel, then use the Channel object to calculate the next sequence
and message number.  Or those values could just be passed in as
arguments to the next_frame method.  Currently, this latter approach
is chosen, mostly in the name of simplifying message creation from
frames.


Channel
--------

Channels in this framework are just collections of counters associated
with a channel: message numbers, sequence numbers, window size (for
SEQ processing), and (usually) a profile implementation.

It also contains a spot for assembling a message, and spots for
assembling ANS messages.  These slots are for collating message from
interleaved frames (across channels, or, for ANS message, even within
a channel).


Session
--------

Sessions own the socket.  The contain a collection of channels, and
start with at least one (channel zero, the management channel).  The
subclasses will send the greeting message on initialization, unless
the NoGreeting parameter is set to true.  Or the Session was
initialized without a proper socket.

Session objects have primitives for reading and writing frames,
sending and receiving messages.  These primitives handle SEQ
processing, and channel zero messages.

Session objects also contain routines for sending management
messages.  This would normally be the provence of the management
profile, but since that is held internally by the session, the send
methods are made available at this level.

Profiles
---------

The API for profiles is defined by the BaseProfile class.
Essentially, these are collections of callbacks for the various (data)
message types: MSG, RPY, ERR, ANS, NULL, and the start channel data.

Each of these callback methods get the message that triggered them,
and a reference to the session.  The start channel data method gets
the data (possibly un-base64-ed) that was sent along with the start
message, not the raw start message.

Profiles use the session to send replies.  The may frequently contain
other methods for initiating messages.

MgmtProfile
------------

This is the subclass of BaseProfile that handles channel zero
management messages.  It also contains methods for sending (or just
creating) the management messages.

ServerSession
--------------

A subclass of Session, this basically just creates a dispatch loop
around the socket.  That is, it loops around reading messages from its
socket, handing them off to the profile implementation associated with
whatever channel it was received on.


ClientSession
--------------

A subclass of Session, this class provides some useful methods
allowing a client to send and receive messages.  No provision is made
for handing off anything to anybody.

THREADING
----------

This implementation doesn't do it.  Well, on the server side, it is
expected to fork for each session, it will not thread (or fork, even)
for channels.  This means that using multiple channels with this
package is not going to give you any performance benefits.


SEQ
----

Real SEQ processing is totally overkill for this package, which
expects a single channel to be in use mostly, and can only deal with
one message at a time regardless.

Unfortunately, there are a few bits that you cannot ignore.  Mainly,
when sending, you cannot exceed the channel window size, because this
may cause other implementations to drop the frames that exceed it,
thus corrupting the channel.  When receiving, you MUST send SEQ frames
as you actually receive frames, otherwise the channel will stall.

Currently the API supports two message-level primitives: send_message
and recv_message (these are built on _write_frame and _read_frame).
Given the names, it should be obvious that these only handle single
messages.  I don't think that that will ever be a great issue for
recv_message (which just returns the first completed message), but it
can be somewhat non-optimal on the sending side, since one cannot send
messages across different channels as channels windows fill up.

In the send_message scenario, it is necessary to send up to the window
size, then switch into reading mode until the window opens up again
(which many implementations will do almost immediately).  When
receiving, it is necessary to emit SEQ frames to keep the channel from
stalling.  Fundamentally, this means that while writing, you will have
to read, and while reading, you will have to write.

Now, while trying to send a message, it is likely that while waiting
for the window to open, stuff is read that is of no immediate interest
(that is, not a SEQ message on the current channel).  Thus we need a
place to put messages (or frames), so that the next time the code
cares to read something, it gets stuff that has officially already
been read.

The recv side is simpler.  Since there aren't any channel queues to
speak of, a SEQ is emitted every time a frame is received with the
static window size.

When reading frames (either during a recv_message call, or stuff being
read while trying to send), it is always possible to recieve
interleaved frames (unless no data channels have been started yet).

Thus, the read primitives need to have two separate places to store
stuff that is not of immediate interest: one, a per channel slot for
incomplete messages, two a general message queue.  The message-level
read primitives need to consult the message queue before reading from
the socket.

In the future, I may add a send primitive that will allow applications
to attempt to send multiple messages at a time, which will allow for
multiplexing across channels.  However, it is fairly low priority at
this point.

David Blacka
September 2003

