NAME
    TaskForest - A simple but expressive job scheduler that allows you to
    chain jobs/tasks and create time dependencies. Uses text config files to
    specify task dependencies.

VERSION
    This is version 1.36.

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
    With the TaskForest Job Scheduler you can:

    *   schedule jobs run at predetermined times

    *   have jobs be dependent on each other

    *   rerun failed jobs

    *   mark jobs as succeeded or failed

    *   put jobs on hold and release the holds

    *   release all dependencies on a job

    *   check the status of all jobs scheduled to run today

    *   interact with the included web service using your own client code

    *   interact with the included web server using your default browser

    *   express the relationships between jobs using a simple text-based
        format (a big advantage if you like using 'grep')

SYNOPSIS
    Over the years TaskForest has migrated from a collection of simple perl
    modules to a full-fledged system. I have found that putting the
    documentation in a single POD is getting much more difficult. You can
    now find the latest documetation on the TaskForest website located at

     http://www.taskforest.com

    If you run the included web server, you will also find a complete copy
    of the documentation on the included web site.

BUGS
    For an up-to-date bug listing and to submit a bug report, please send an
    email to the TaskForest Discussion Mailing List at "taskforest-discuss
    at lists dot sourceforge dot net"

SUPPORT
    For support, please visit our website at http://www.taskforest.com/ or
    send an email to the TaskForest Discussion Mailing List at
    "taskforest-discuss at lists dot sourceforge dot net"

AUTHORS
    Aijaz A. Ansari http://www.taskforest.com/

    The following developers have graciously contributed patches to enhance
    TaskForest:

    *   Steve Hulet

    Please see the 'Changes' file for details. If you have contributed code,
    and your name is not on the above list, please accept my apologies and
    let me know, so that I may give you credit.

    If you're using this program, I would love to hear from you. Please send
    an email to the TaskForest Discussion Mailing List at
    "taskforest-discuss at lists dot sourceforge dot net" and let me know
    what you think of it.

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
    Many thanks to the following for their help and support:

    *   SourceForge

    *   Rosco Rouse

    *   Svetlana Lemeshov

    *   Teresia Arthur

    *   Steve Hulet

    I would also like to thank Randal L. Schwartz for teaching the readers
    of the Feb 1999 issue of Web Techniques how to write a pre-forking web
    server, the code upon which the TaskForest Web server is built.

    I would also like to thank the fine developers at Yahoo! for providing
    yui to the open source community.

COPYRIGHT
    This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
    under the same terms as Perl itself - specifically, the Artistic
    License.

    The full text of the license can be found in the LICENSE file included
    with this module.

SEE ALSO
    perl(1).

