NAME

    Alien::Build::Plugin::Build::Make - Make plugin for Alien::Build

VERSION

    version 0.02

SYNOPSIS

     use alienfile;
     # For a recipe that requires GNU Make
     plugin 'Build::Make' => 'gmake';

DESCRIPTION

    By default Alien::Build provides a helper for the make that is used by
    Perl and ExtUtils::MakeMaker itself. This is handy, because it is the
    one make that you can mostly guarantee that you will have.
    Unfortunately it may be a make that isn't supported by the library or
    tool that you are trying to alienize. This is mostly a problem on
    Windows, where the supported makes for years were Microsoft's nmake and
    Sun's dmake, which many open source projects do not use. This plugin
    will alter the alienfile recipe to use a different make. It may (as in
    the case of gmake / Alien::gmake) automatically download and install an
    alienized version of that make if it is not already installed.

    This plugin should NOT be used with other plugins that replace the make
    helper, like Alien::Build::Plugin::Build::CMake,
    Alien::Build::Plugin::Build::Autoconf,
    Alien::Build::Plugin::Build::MSYS. This plugin is intended instead for
    projects that use vanilla makefiles of a specific type.

    This plugin is for now distributed separately from Alien::Build, but
    the intention is for it to soon become a core plugin for Alien::Build.

PROPERTIES

 make_type

    The make type needed by the alienfile recipe:

    dmake

      Sun's dmake.

    gmake

      GNU Make.

    nmake

      Microsoft's nmake. It comes with Visual C++.

    umake

      Any UNIX make Usually either BSD or GNU Make.

HELPERS

 make

     %{make}

    This plugin may change the make helper used by your alienfile recipe.

AUTHOR

    Graham Ollis <plicease@cpan.org>

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

    This software is copyright (c) 2017 by Graham Ollis.

    This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
    the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

