
HTML::Template::HTX - Handle HTML Extension template (.htx) files


DESCRIPTION

Reads and outputs HTML Extension template (.htx) files, which enable you to
seperate your Perl code from HTML code.


MOTIVATION

The .htx file format was originally used by Microsoft's Index Server and
their Internet Database Connector, but may be useful for any server side
program that outputs HTML (or even some other ASCII file format), and
especially for scripts generating sequential data, such as search engines.

Note that this module and its template format are not directly related nor
compatible with the popular HTML::Template module.


DOCUMENTATION

Documentation on how to use this module is availabe in the POD format,
inside the HTX.pm file.

Some documentation on the internal ("private") methods and variables are
availabe as comments inside inside the HTX.pm file.


INSTALLATION

To install this module type the following well-known commands:

   perl Makefile.PL
   make
   make test
   make install


DEPENDENCIES

This module requires Perl 5.6 (because of UTF-8 support), and these other
modules and libraries:

  FileHandle
  HTML::Entities
  URI::Escape

All of these modules were shipped with my Perl (ActivePerl 5.6.1 build 630)
by default, so I guess you won't have to worry about them. However, for full
UTF-8 support you might want to update at least the HTML::Entities module to
the latest version.

If you run a Perl version older than 5.6, then you should manually disable a
couple of lines in the HTX.pm file (lines 11 and 12). More information can
be found inside the HTX.pm file itself. (By the way, I haven't actually
tested this module on such an old Perl version, but it should work...)


AUTHOR INFORMATION

Theo Niessink <niessink@martinic.nl>, http://www.taletn.com/


COPYRIGHT

(c) MARTINIC Computers 2002-2005. This module is free software; you can
redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

For more information on MARTINIC Computers visit http://www.martinic.nl/
