NAME
    Lexical::select - provides a lexically scoped currently selected
    filehandle

VERSION
    version 0.10

SYNOPSIS
      use Lexical::select;

      open my $fh, '>', 'fubar' or die "Oh noes!\n";

      {
        my $lxs = lselect $fh;

        print "Something wicked goes to \$fh \n";

      }

      print "Back on STDOUT\n";

DESCRIPTION
    Changing the currently selected filehandle with "select" and changing it
    back to the previously selected filehandle can be slightly tedious.
    Wouldn't it be great to have something handle this boilerplate,
    especially in lexical scopes.

    This is where Lexical::select comes in.

    Lexical::select provides the "lselect" function. As demonstrated in the
    "SYNOPSIS", "lselect" will change the currently selected filehandle to
    the filehandle of your choice for the duration of the enclosing lexical
    scope.

    It should be noted that the duration of the selected filehandle is
    limited to the lexical scope, not the effects of the selected
    filehandle.

FUNCTIONS
    Functions exported by default.

    "lselect"
        Takes one parameter, a "filehandle" that will become the currently
        selected filehandle for the duration of the enclosing scope.

        Returns an object, which provides the "restore" method.

        You can then either "restore" the currently selected filehandle back
        manually or let the object fall out of scope, which automagically
        restores.

METHODS
    "restore"
        Explicitly restores the currently selected filehandle back to the
        original filehandle. This is called automagically when the object is
        "DESTROY"ed, for instance when the object goes out of scope.

SEE ALSO
    SelectSaver

AUTHOR
    Chris Williams <chris@bingosnet.co.uk>

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
    This software is copyright (c) 2014 by Chris Williams.

    This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
    the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

