Finance-QuoteHist 
-----------------

The Finance-QuoteHist bundle is several modules designed to fetch
historical stock quotes from the web: 
  
Finance::QuoteHist
------------------
Top level aggregator that will select a default lineup of
site instances from which to retrieve quotes. Other
than the default lineup, this module behaves identically
to whichever site-specific module is first in the lineup.
See below for site-specific modules. 

Finance::QuoteHist::Generic
---------------------------
The real workhorse of the bundle, a sub class of
LWP::UserAgent. Site-specific modules are sub classes
of this module.


INSTALLATION

You install HTML-Element-Extended, as you would install any
perl library, by running these commands:

   perl Makefile.PL
   make
   make test
   make install


DOCUMENTATION

POD style documentation is included with each module. This is normally
converted to a manual page and installed as part of the "make install"
process. You should also be able to use the 'perldoc' utility to
extract and read documentation from the module file directly.  See
Changes for recent changes.


SUPPORT

The source code is tracked on GitHub:

https://github.com/mojotoad/Finance-QuoteHist

Problems can be reported there. Questions and comments can also be
directed to Matt Sisk <sisk@mojotoad.com>

AVAILABILITY

In addition to GitHub, the library is available from CPAN:

   http://www.cpan.org/authors/id/M/MS/MSISK/


DISCLAIMER 

The data returned from these modules is in no way guaranteed, nor
are the developers responsible in any way for how this data (or lack
thereof) is used. The interface is based on URLs and page layouts
that might change at any time. Even though these modules are designed
to be adaptive under these circumstances, they will at some point
probably be unable to retrieve data unless fixed or provided with new
parameters. Furthermore, the data from these web sites is usually not
even guaranteed by the web sites themselves, and oftentimes is
acquired elsewhere. See the documentation for each site-specific
module for more information regarding the disclaimer for that site. 


ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

Thanks to Jim Miner for his generous efforts testing this module. Thanks
to Josh Woodward for some pointers on the Yahoo! interface. Thanks to
Jacob Anawalt for pointers on the Yahoo! interface and suggestions on
open-ended date queries. Thanks to Paul McDermott and Jay Strauss for
patches. Thanks to Manoj Bhatti, Bernd Hacker, Christian von
Engelbrechten, Gary Nielson, Mike Brown, Bill Stephenson, and Robert S.
Weigel for their bug-spotting.


COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 1999-2013 Matthew P. Sisk.  All rights reserved.
All wrongs revenged. This program is free software; you can
redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as
Perl itself.
