
GOOE AND sgf2dg INSTALLATION 
-----------------------------

This file covers installation of the GOOE TeX fonts and the
sgf2dg script on UNIX machines, including Linux.  For DOS and
Windows systems, please read this file and also see the file
INSTALL.DOS.


Sgf2Dg comes as a standard perl extension package.  On most systems,
assuming perl and TeX are already installed, you can cast the normal
incantation:

    perl Makefile.PL
    make
    make test       (optional)
    make install

During the 'perl Makefile.PL' step, the Makefile.PL script
attempts to find the appropriate places on your system to install
the TeX parts of this package.  Unfortunately, TeX distibutions
vary widely and the script may not be able to find all the
correct places in which case it will ask for your help.  If you do
not wish to install the TeX parts of this package, answer 'q' at
this time.

'perl Makefile.PL' prints a list of where it plans to install the
TeX parts.  Please check this list carefully.  It also writes the
list into the Makefile in the tex subdirectory.  If there are any
corrections you need to make, you may edit tex/Makefile before
running 'make install'.  The INSTALL file in the tex
subdirectory, and the comments in tex/Makefile can help you
figure out what needs to be fixed.

If you are installing to a non-system TeX installation (ie: your
own personal TeX hierarchy), you will almost certainly need to
edit tex/Makefile.


Since this installation procedure is significantly different from
previous releases, you may need to hunt down and delete files from
any previous installations of sgf2dg (and sgf2tex).  In particular,
the executable files sgf2dg, sgfsplit, and the manual pages sgf2dg.1
and sgfsplit.1 may end up in different places so you might reference
the wrong (old) one.  Also the old sgf2tex script is not deleted
when installing sgf2dg.  'which' and 'locate' on Unix and linux
systems can help track them down.  The 'File Find' utility can do
the same job on Windows systems.


The last action during the 'make install' step is to build the
manual.  The Makefile executes 'tex manual.tex' to create a file
called manual.dvi which can be printed or viewed (with xdvi or a
similar DVI viewer).

The first time you print or view each new font character,
MakeTeXPK will generate and cache the fonts in pk format.  This
may take a while. Later prints and previews use the cached fonts,
saving the font generation time.

Completing font installation in TeX may require tools that are not
included in a standard TeX installation.  If displaying your output
document fails with "font not found" messages, you may need to install
some additional TeX 'utils' package.  Examine the error messages for
'command not found' for more clues (mktexpk may be the culprit).

SGF2MPOST
-----------------------------

Sgf2mpost is an alternative method of typesetting Go games,
based on Metapost. To make sgf2mpost, change to the 
sgf2mpost/ directory, then type 'make'. Use of Sgf2mpost
is described in the manual.

