
    Sgf2Dg

Smart Go Format (SGF) files are commonly used to store go games in
electronic form.  Hard copy (paper) records are commonly in diagram
form.  Sgf2Dg is a perl package to convert from SGF to diagrams.

Sgf2Dg is a complete re-write of the sgf2tex package.  The last
release of sgf2tex was sgf2tex-3.3.tar.gz.  Sgf2Dg is a super-set
replacement for sgf2tex and starts with revision 4.000.

One reason for re-writing sgf2tex was to create a more flexible
converter environment.  The Sgf2Dg package is designed to
accommodate different target diagram formats.  TeX is still the
default converter, but the sgf2dg script can handle any converter to
produce diagrams in any format.  The Sgf2Dg package currently ships
with these output converters:

    TeX         the default
    Mp          MetaPost embedded in TeX (encapsulated PostScript)
    ASCII       simple ASCII art
    PDF         Portable Document Format
    Ps          PostScript (much nicer than TkPs)
    Tk          a perl/Tk NoteBook window
    TkPs        PostScript derived from the Tk converter

Another reason to re-write sgf2tex was to make this package a
standard perl module, installable with the usual perl invocation:

    $ perl Makefile.pl
    $ make
    $ make test
    $ make install

If this normal installation fails for any reason, please see the
file INSTALL, where you will find more detailed instructions for
installing the Sgf2Dg package and the TeX fonts.  The file
INSTALL.DOS contains additional instructions specific to DOS and
Windows systems.  If are installing on a DOS or Windows platform,
please read both INSTALL and INSTALL.DOS

Note that during 'perl Makefile.PL', the script may not be able to
determine the proper destinations for some TeX files.  If this
happens, it will stop and ask for user input (our apologies to
automatic testers and installers).  If you don't wish to install the
TeX parts, you may answer with 'q' at this time.

Completing font installation in TeX may require tools that are not included
in a standard TeX installation.  If displaying your output document fails
with "font not found" messages, you may need to install some additional TeX
'utils' package.  Examine the error messages for 'command not found' for
more clues (mktexpk may be the culprit).

Installation includes a number of manual/perldoc pages.  Invoking:

    $ perldoc sgf2dg

or

    $ man sgf2dg

after installation gives you the complete documentation for the
sgf2dg script.  sgfsplit also has a perldoc/man page.

In addition, there are pages for all the output converters.  Since
the converters are stored in the Games::Go hierarchy of your perl
installation, you can view their perldoc/man pages with:

    $ perldoc Games::Go::Sgf2Dg::Dg2Tk

or

    $ man Games::Go::Sgf2Dg::Dg2PDF

There is also a manual.tex included with this distribution.  If you
install using the invocation above, it produces a manual.dvi file in
the distribution directory.  You may view this manual with any DVI
viewer (kdvi for KDE, xdvi, etc).  manual.tex includes information
on the fonts as well as sgf2dg and sgfsplit.



    Go Typesetting Using the Dg2TeX converter

Dg2TeX is the default output converter plugin for sgf2dg.  It
produces TeX source for the target diagram.  TeX produced by Dg2TeX
may be used with either plain TeX or LaTeX.  This package includes
the Metafont sources for a set of fonts, called GOOE, used by the
Dg2TeX converter to produce TeX source for the diagrams.

The numerals on the Go stones in these fonts are instances of the
Computer Modern Fonts designed by Donald Knuth and his co-workers as
part of the TeX system. The file romandg.mf is the same as the file
romand.mf distributed with TeX, with only trivial modifications to
allow the fonts generated from it to be pasted onto Go stones. This
file is of course copyrighted by Donald Knuth. The remaining
portions of the GOOE system are published under the Gnu Public
License.  The sgf2dg scripts and associated Dg2* output converters
are published under the standard perl license.  Although this system
is thus free software, we would appreciate acknowledgement if it is
used to publish a book.

Another set of Go fonts was created by Hanna Kolodziejska around
1990, and revised by Jan van der Steen. Those fonts, together with
the latex document style file go.sty can be found at CTAN in the
directory fonts/go, or at the Go ftp sites (such as
ftp://igs.nuri.net in the Go/printing directory) under the name
golatex. Jan van der Steen's utiltiy sgf2misc has the capability of
generating LaTeX or postscript files from SGF. It may be obtained
from ftp://igs.nuri.net in the Go/prog directory. Our work is
independent of and different from van der Steen's.


                Getting perl and TeX

perl and TeX are both widely available, and will be found already
installed on many or most UNIX systems. 

If you don't have it, you can get perl from the Comprehensive Perl
Archive Network (CPAN) at:

    http://cpan.org

You can get TeX in the TeTeX or Web2c distributions from:

    http://www.tug.org/tetex/

or:

    ftp://ftp.tug.org/tex/web2c/

An NTEX distribution (which may be somewhat out of date) may be
found at:

    http://cyl.cs.cf.ac.uk/software/ntex/
or:

    ftp://www.langbein.org/ntex/


TeX is a trademark of the American Mathematical Society. Metafont is
a trademark of Addison Wesley Publishing Company.


                      Daniel Bump (bump@math.stanford.edu)
                      Reid Augustin (reid@hellosix.com), 2005


