
Note: this file is mostly obsolete (reid - 050214)


                This is sgf2tex-3.1

There are new fonts in sgf2tex-3.1, implementing letters 
a-z on stones. 

If you are reinstalling from sgf2tex-1.0, be aware that the
fonts have changed. This means that in addition to repeating
the installation steps described in INSTALL, you must delete
.pk fonts which are cached in the system. When you run
MakeTeXPK you print or preview the file, files with names
such as gooa.300pk, etc. are generated and stored
somewhere---if you do not delete these you may have
problems. This point is discussed in the manual under FONT
DESIGN NOTES.

If you are reinstalling from sgf2tex-2.0 or later, you do
not need to delete any the fonts. However you will need to
copy the new metafont sources gobl.mf, gowl.mf, goxl.mf
paramsc.mf and itallg.mf to their appropriate places.

You can get the version number by running sgf2tex -v.

You may need Perl 5.001 or later in order to successfully run
sgf2tex.

                 New in sgf2tex-2.0

The fonts have been changed from sgf2tex-1.0. A bug in the
fonts caused dvips to generate incorrect postscript. The
affected files are bodd.mf and wodd.mf, which are included
in each of the font files. The italic correction and
adjust_fit now are set to zero in each character. Also,
the value of fine has been reset to 17/36pt in paramsb.mf, 
which improves the appearance of some numerals.

The perl script sgf2tex has been extensively rewritten. The
current version uses more correct perl, fixes some bugs,
generates better TeX and has a new option, -coords, which
prints a coordinate grid.

A patch from Jan van der Steen was applied to sgfsplit.c,
to aid portability.

		New in sgf2tex 2.1

There have been no changes to the fonts since sgf2tex-2.0. 
The only change to sgf2tex itself is the correction of a
bug, which could cause the text to overwrite the diagram
if a comment contained one or more spaces or tabs on a line 
by themselves. The manual and INSTALL files have been
modified with the inclusion of instructions for DOS/Windows 95,
and the package has been made available as a .zip file. 

		New in sgf2tex-2.2

A bug has been corrected which could cause the title to be
omitted from a diagram if the first move of the game happens to 
be in the same node as the title information.

                New in sgf2tex-2.3

Support for 9x9 and 13x13 games has been added. If the board
size equals 9 or 13 (specified by the SZ property in the SGF
file) then the appropriate smaller board is used; otherwise
19x19 is assumed.

In earlier versions a pass could cause the move numbers to be
incremented in order to maintain parity. This is as it should
be, but sometimes the move numbers were being incremented
unnecessarily. This bug has been fixed.

Another bug could cause comments to be omitted. This has been
corrected.

The Komi is now printed without trailing zeros. This is an issue
with IGS games.

The Makefile has been rewritten. There is now an option to
``Make install.''

                New in sgf2tex-3.0

Many bugfixes, some new features. Formatting of the TeX
files is improved. Runtime messages are more clear and
helpfully indented to show the nesting of variations. New
options -absoluteVarNums and -correlativeVarNums are
alternative schemes for numbering variations. The -gap
option allows you to control the spacing between
diagrams.

                New in sgf2tex-3.1

Letters on stones.
