NAME
    Wikibase::Datatype::Struct - Wikibase structure serialization.

DESCRIPTION
    This conversion is between objects defined in Wikibase::Datatype and
    structures serialized via JSON to MediaWiki.

SEE ALSO
    Wikibase::Datatype::Struct::Form
        Wikibase form structure serialization.

    Wikibase::Datatype::Struct::Item
        Wikibase item structure serialization.

    Wikibase::Datatype::Struct::Lexeme
        Wikibase lexeme structure serialization.

    Wikibase::Datatype::Struct::Mediainfo
        Wikibase mediainfo structure serialization.

    Wikibase::Datatype::Struct::MediainfoSnak
        Wikibase mediainfo snak structure serialization.

    Wikibase::Datatype::Struct::MediainfoStatement
        Wikibase mediainfo statement structure serialization.

    Wikibase::Datatype::Struct::Property
        Wikibase property structure serialization.

    Wikibase::Datatype::Struct::Reference
        Wikibase reference structure serialization.

    Wikibase::Datatype::Struct::Sense
        Wikibase sense structure serialization.

    Wikibase::Datatype::Struct::Sitelink
        Wikibase sitelink structure serialization.

    Wikibase::Datatype::Struct::Snak
        Wikibase snak structure serialization.

    Wikibase::Datatype::Struct::Statement
        Wikibase statement structure serialization.

    Wikibase::Datatype::Struct::Utils
        Wikibase structure serialization utilities.

    Wikibase::Datatype::Struct::Value
        Wikibase value structure serialization.

    Wikibase::Datatype::Struct::Value::Globecoordinate
        Wikibase globe coordinate value structure serialization.

    Wikibase::Datatype::Struct::Value::Item
        Wikibase item value structure serialization.

    Wikibase::Datatype::Struct::Value::Monolingual
        Wikibase monolingual value structure serialization.

    Wikibase::Datatype::Struct::Value::Property
        Wikibase property value structure serialization.

    Wikibase::Datatype::Struct::Value::Quantity
        Wikibase quantity value structure serialization.

    Wikibase::Datatype::Struct::Value::Sense
        Wikibase sense value structure serialization.

    Wikibase::Datatype::Struct::Value::String
        Wikibase string value structure serialization.

    Wikibase::Datatype::Struct::Value::Time
        Wikibase time value structure serialization.

REPOSITORY
    <https://github.com/michal-josef-spacek/Wikibase-Datatype-Struct>

AUTHOR
    Michal Josef Špaček <mailto:skim@cpan.org>

    <http://skim.cz>

LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT
    © 2020-2023 Michal Josef Špaček

    BSD 2-Clause License

VERSION
    0.12

