This file is ordered roughly chronologically (meaning that I add new
entries to the bottom of the file and don't change the order of existing
ones except to go back and add to already existing entries).  I considered
breaking things up between major and minor contributions, but that's
obvious from the text, and no contribution is too minor to be greatly
appreciated.

The (growing) length of this file is a testimony to the efficacy of the
free software community, which is a community in action as well as name
and includes some of the most helpful, intelligent, patient, and gracious
people I have had the honor of dealing with.

Larry Wall, et. al.
    For Perl, without which this program would be at least twice as long
    and probably wouldn't be finished yet; for the infrastructure that
    made the modular concept both possible and easy to implemen; and for
    the inspiration to everyone who writes free software.

The rec.arts.comics.creative community
    My alpha testers at every phase of the development of this package,
    they've seen more versions and more bugs than anyone else other than
    me.  Their excellent problem reports and gracious tolerance for the
    inevitable problems made this project possible.

Daniel P. Faigin <faigin@shamash.org>
    Provided the starting point for the list of mail headers to drop from
    a news post.  The code I wrote from this information has long since
    migrated out of this module and been rethought from scratch, but it
    was greatly appreciated at the time.

Betty Lee <bettylee@leland.stanford.edu>
    Provided the initial idea for the header rewrite rules and who helped
    with early testing by using gateway as Stanford's mail to news gateway
    for internal newsgroups.  Also implemented the original code that
    became the previoushop module (but relying on a sendmail rewrite hack
    to do it) and gave me the idea of how to do it.  Provided the news
    error status codes that indicated temporary errors for me early on,
    and requested the prepend directive for the headers module.  Also the
    source of the idea behind the previoushop module.

Larry Schwimmer <schwim@cs.stanford.edu>
    Suggested the autoreply feature, which now exists in a much altered
    form, served as a sounding board, and gave advice on numerous aspects
    of the program and documentation.

Matt Petach <mpetach@netflight.com>
    Prompted me to add support for wildcards in group directives, which
    now needs more work *again*, requested the nntpserver directive which
    has disappeared again and will be showing up in the form of the
    example mail to news gateway, and pointed out that not all vendor
    versions of cp have the -f flag.  This is one of the few areas where
    switching to ExtUtils::MakeMaker actually created *fewer* problems.

Andrew Gierth <andrew@erlenstar.demon.co.uk>
    When told that I was writing a module to handle robomoderation and
    mail to news gatewaying, Andrew mentioned that he'd already written a
    News::Article class to encapsulate manipulation of articles for a
    similar application.  At which point, I asked myself why I didn't do
    that in the first place and took an extended break from working on
    this module to send him patches and suggestions for his.  Most of the
    low-level manipulations of articles is now handled seamlessly by his
    module and I don't even have to think about it.  It's wonderful.  The
    mailpath code is also based on Andrew's original work, and many of the
    improvements and additions to News::Gateway have been inspired by his
    comments.

Jeremy Billones <billones@primenet.com>
    Needed the ability to give the keywords module a regex to specify how
    to obtain keywords from the Subject line.  Also needed a way of
    limiting and controlling crossposting for rec.arts.comics.reviews,
    which served as the inspiration for the crosspost module, and wanted
    the ability to have posters include headers at the beginnings of
    messages, which prompted the bodyheaders module.

Chris Meadows <robotech@eyrie.org>
    The rec.games.mecha charter requires some keyword, but doesn't have a
    set list of keywords, thus requiring the anykeyword module.  It also
    requires banning of binaries, which provided the motivation for
    writing the nobinaries module.

George A. Theall <george.a.theall@mail.tju.edu>
    Wrote the program purge-binaries, which takes a channel feed from a
    news server and removes binaries from the spool.  The isBinary()
    method of this program provides the heart of the binary detection
    logic in the nobinaries module.

Tim Skirvin <tskirvin@uiuc.edu>
    First person to use my original gateway script as a robomoderator
    (with modifications).  Also gave me the idea to check for base64 in
    Content-Transfer-Encoding when checking for binaries.

Christopher Davis <ckd@loiosh.kei.com>
    Provided the original script on which listgate was based, as well as
    motivation for writing the listgate example, and let me use his ideas
    and his code for it.  Also provided the m4 file and the documentation,
    and provided the initial implementation of the mungeids module and the
    post_ihave() and post_program() methods.

Ollivier Robert <roberto@keltia.freenix.fr>
    Found a bug in the newsgroups module (addresses not being downcased
    before being checked against regex patterns that were downcased).

Jeff Garzik <jeff.garzik@spinne.com>
    Found a bug in the documentation of how to call the News::Gateway
    constructor and also pointed out that post() should take a hostname or
    Net::NNTP connection as an optional argument.

Tom Hughes <tom@compton.demon.co.uk>
    Found various bugs in mailtonews' extraction of message IDs from the
    In-Reply-To header.

Jon Lennox <lennox@cs.columbia.edu>
    Noticed that backslashes didn't work as expected outside of double
    quotes in configuration directives and that line continuation in
    config files wasn't handled as neatly as it could be.  Both problems
    have now been fixed.

Curtis (Jewell) Whalen <curtis_whalen@geocities.com>
    Provided a *lot* of new ideas and new modules that I still need to add
    into the standard distribution.  Also tested News::Gateway on Windows
    95 and confirmed that it worked correctly there (with some tweaks to
    News::Article).
