This directory contains a few examples for use of Embperl.

eg/web          This directory contains the new Embperl website.
                It uses most of the new possibilites of Embperl 2.0b6+.
                To take a look at it just type "make start" and then
                request http://localhost:8531/eg/web/ . To get it
                working you need to have libxml installed and a 
                database called "embperl", which should be setup with
                the script setupdb.pl in eg/webutil.
                Look at eg/web/README for more information and setup
                instructions.

eg/x		Here are the following html files
eg/images	Here are the background  GIF

if.htm	        simple html file which shows how you can use the 
                if, elsif, else and endif metacommand.

loop.htm	simple html file which shows how you can use the while,
                do/until and foreach matacommands to display arrays
                or hashs

table.htm	simple html file which shows how to use the dynamic table 
                feature 

lists.htm       shows you how to use dynamic lists and listboxes and
                dropdownboxes

config.htm      print out your perl config, like perl -V does

dbi1.htm        shows how to fetch data from a database and display them
                into a table using Embperl dynamic tables
                Please read the setup notes in the file itself.

dbi2.htm        shows how to fetch data from a database and display them
                into a table using Embperl loop metacommands
                Please read the setup notes in the file itself.

recordset.htm   shows how to fetch data from a database using the 
                DBIx::Recordset module
                Please read the setup notes in the file itself.

input.htm       a input and confirmation form (including error checking),
                which data will be send via mail

formvalidation.htm  shows how to use the formvalidation feature new
                in Embperl 2.0b6

neu.htm	        this example shows many of the feature of Embperl, as 
                embedding various code, conditional processing and form 
		management (It's in German but I think it can be understand 
		anyway). If called it works like a wizard known from windows 
		95 where you can enter data on some consecutive pages and walk 
		forward or back at everytime preserving the input made so far. 
		Note that the database interface is missing from this example. 

Execute.pl      This is an perl script which shows how to use the function
                HTML::Embperl::Execute. It runs under Apache::Registry or
                offline.

upload.htm      Shows how to do a file upload with Embperl

You can also look at the directory test/html. The files found here
will transformed to the files found in test/cmp, the request for that can
be found at the beginning of test.pl.
NOTE: Files in test/html are tests, some things don't make sense for real usage

