Tk::MListbox Module 1.10


Tk::MListbox is another "column" or "table" widget. It works much like a
Listbox, but instead of storing each row as a scalar, each row in the MListbox
is a list or an array, each element in the list/array represents a column in 
the row. 

Tk::MListbox lets the user resize the columns by dragging a separator bar
between each column. The user might change the order of the column by dragging
the column headers. The data in the widget might be sorted by clicking one of
the column headers. A new click, and the sort order is reversed.

Tk::MListbox is scrollable and supports the Scrolled() method.

Tk::MListbox is designed for displaying reports like the result of a database
query or the contents of a directory.

Two example programs are provided: sql.pl lets the user enter a query and 
displays the result in a MListbox. Requires DBI.pm. test.pl is a very 
simple file browser for unix/windows.


To install, type

	$ perl Makefile.PL
	$ make
	$ make install

MListbox.pm contains pod documentation.


ABOUT VERSION  1.10

This version is a thorough scrub of version 1.09 - I'm hopeful
that I caught all bugs, but realistic enough to know that I 
probably didn't. So, if you should find one, please report it
and I'll fix it. The comp.lang.perl.tk newsgroup is the best
place to post such finds - this was the problems can be 
brought to the attention of a larger group of people and 
perhaps someone will offer a patch that much faster.

In an attempt to get this out the door before Christmas, there
are some things which are incomplete - documentation and a decent
test script. There is something called test.pl, but this is 
really just a script that shows MListbox being used. As for 
documentation... There is MListbox.pod which is the older
documentation that I need to update. Since this version is 
mostly just a maintenance version, the docs should be valid,
though threadbare.

You will find my documenation in a directly called docs. It's
a format that I've been experimenting with. MListbox.html
is mostly done. What's left to be finished is:

docs/MListbox/tutorial.html
docs/MListbox/MLColumn.html
docs/MListbox/HButton.html
docs/MListbox/CListbox.html

Between the old docs, and MListbox.html, and
the sample scripts, I'm confident that it should be enough
to get started started until I can finish off the rest of 
the docs.


For bug reports, comments and suggestions:

post problems to the comp.lang.perl.tk group
but if absolutely necessary, send an email to:

 Rob Seegel (RobSeegel@aol.com)











