	WIERD URLS

I've tried to get rid of the URI::URL class in LinkController and the
classes it uses and use URI only instead.  I am not sure if this will
cause problems with some old data.  It shouldn't though since we store
URIs in text strings and so should access them fine and other places
should be insulated by subclasses?  

	TIME TRANSPORTED OBJECTS

I'm not sure what happens in general if I take a frozen object
belonging to someone else's class and then transport it in time.  Do I
have to provide it with the same version of the library to interpret
it?  Can I do that if perl doesn't support library versioning?
Probably we should discuss with the other developers how to get a
forward compatible version format + backwards protecting version
labelling?

	UNTESTED OPTIONS

Many different options have not yet been tested.  Certainly there is
no way that every combination of options have been tested.
Contributions to the test suite are very much appreciated.  

	FRAGMENTS

It seems that fragments often contain spaces.  In this case they are
left out of the database.  Actually, the fragment should be recorded
separately within the link and then it should be part of resource
_content_ verification.  For properly defined URL schemes, the
resource its self will always be retrieved / activated in one go..

	LOSSES FROM DATABASE

There were some losses from the database.  These should now be fixed.
Of course it's still possible to lose information if a crash occurs
during a database write.  Keep backups as usual.  We make no attempt
to protect the Link data which isn't considered that valuable since
it's "easy" to regenerate with in a few days.

	LOCATION OF PERL

I make the assumption that the perl that is first in your path is the
one you want to use.  The choice of perl should be propagated through to
the Progcopy.PL script and tests from the Makefile.PL.

	SUNOS COMMAND START UP

On SunOS 4, the -w flags in the first line of all the programs end up
split across the maximum length of a command for me.  This leads to
the error

  Unrecognized switch: - .

Strangely this only happens with some of the programs. The only
solution is to fix the programs by hand.  Just add ten or so spaces
after between perl and the option.  Or better yet upgrade to a more
modern operating system.

If anyone knows the general rule about which bit of the first line is
used on what operating system, I can try to ensure that this doesn't
get installed broken.

	BASE URLS

lack of clarity about when we should end an infostructure base with a
slash ( `/' ).  I don't think there are any bad cases, but if you find
one, please tell me.

