NAME
    Class::DBI::SAK - Class::DBI Swiss Army Knife (SAK)

SYNOPSIS
      use Class::DBI::SAK qw[:common :mysql FromCGI];

ABSTRACT
    This module encapsulates the pain and suffering that is importing
    Class::DBI and all it's little helper friends.

DESCRIPTION
    By taking the busy work out of using Class::DBI as you see fit, your
    code becomes more useful by size. Most of us end up using at least a
    couple Class::DBI extensions in our programs, and it's just a pain.
    Enter the Swiss Army Knife.

    This module is intelligent. It knows how each module is supposed to be
    used, and which ones override the need to "use base qw[Class::DBI]".

  Tags

    Tags may be specified either by groupings, begining with a colon (":"),
    or by the name of the module following the "Class::DBI::" prefix.

    Tags are available for all modules in the Class::DBI namepace, where it
    makes sense to do so, as of the date of this distribution.

    All modules are mentioned without the "Class::DBI::" prefix for brevity.

   Groups

    ":all"
        All the modules specified in this module. This couldn't possibly be
        useful to the end user (you) since so many of them conflict.

    ":useful"
        Modules that are generally useful all the time. AbstractSearch,
        Join, Pager. This is the default if no tags are given at all.

    ":mysql"
        Modules for widened support for Mysql. mysql, mysql::FullTextSearch.

   Modules

    Extension
    FromCGI
    Pg
    Replication
    SQLite
BUGS
    First, this module could get out of date easily. This is due to the
    nature of the uses of each of the modules. They are not consistent, so I
    have to know about each one. Please submit a bug report if you find this
    module out of date.

    Second, no known bugs.

    Send bug reports to http://rt.cpan.org/

AUTHOR
    Casey West, <casey@geeknest.com>

COPYRIGHT
    Copyright (c) 2003 Casey West. All rights reserved. This program is free
    software; you may redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms
    as Perl itself.

SEE ALSO
    the perl manpage, the Class::DBI manpage.

