NAME
    Task::Unicode - Everything needed to work with Unicode data

VERSION
    This document describes Task::Unicode v0.06.

DESCRIPTION
    This Task module installs everything needed for working with Unicode and
    UTF-8 strings as well as a number of modules and utilities to assist in
    development and debugging. It is not intended to be an all-inclusive
    bundle of Unicode modules on the CPAN. Instead, it is a collection of
    the essential and some of the most useful general-purpose modules.

    This is an early release of Task::Unicode and the bundled module list is
    not yet complete. Modules may be added or removed. Please contact the
    author with suggestions for upcoming releases.

    The brief module descriptions are currently taken directly from each
    module. In the future, these will be slightly expanded and explained for
    those with less Unicode knowledge.

  MODULES
    Unicode::CaseFold
        Unicode case-folding for case-insensitive lookups

    Unicode::Casing
        Perl extension to override system case changing functions

    Unicode::Collate::Locale
        Linguistic tailoring for DUCET via Unicode::Collate

    Unicode::GCString
        String as Sequence of UAX #29 Grapheme Clusters

    Unicode::LineBreak
        Line Folding for Plain Text

    Unicode::Regex::Set
        Subtraction and Intersection of Character Sets in Unicode Regular
        Expressions

    Unicode::Stringprep
        Preparation of Internationalized Strings (RFC 3454)

    Unicode::UTF8
        Encoding and decoding of UTF-8 encoding form

    Unicode::Util
        Unicode-aware versions of built-in Perl functions

    utf8::all
        Turn on Unicode—all of it

  DEBUGGING
    String::Dump
        Dump strings of characters or bytes for printing and debugging

    Encode::DoubleEncodedUTF8
        Fix double-encoded UTF-8 bytes to the correct one

  UTILITIES
    App::Uni
        Command-line utility to grep UnicodeData.txt

    Unicode::Tussle
        Tom’s Unicode Scripts So Life is Easier (only installed with Perl
        5.14+)

  SEE ALSO
    This task requires Perl v5.10, which bundles the following important
    modules.

    charnames
        Access to Unicode character names and named character sequences;
        also define character names

    utf8
        Perl pragma to enable/disable UTF-8 (or UTF-EBCDIC) in source code

    open
        Perl pragma to set default PerlIO layers for input and output

    Encode
        Character encodings in Perl

    Unicode::Collate
        Unicode Collation Algorithm

    Unicode::Normalize
        Unicode Normalization Forms

    Unicode::UCD
        Unicode character database

AUTHOR
    Nick Patch <patch@cpan.org>

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
    © 2012–2014 Nick Patch

    This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
    under the same terms as Perl itself.

