AI::ExpertSystem::Simple - A class implementing an expert system

This is release V1.2 of AI::ExpertSystem::Simple. The class 
implements a simple expert system that reads its knowledge base 
(set of IF .. THEN rules) from an XML file.

Three sample knowledge bases are provided along with a command line shell
that allows the knowledge bases to be consulted.

There is a Tcl/Tk based shell in which you can run a consultation, I
was going to write this in Perl/Tk as would seem obvious but this is
less than simple under OSX, infact I never got it to work. However there
was an OSX based version of Tcl/Tk and it would be easier to write the
shell in that which is much more portable (just install ActiveTcl on 
Windows, Aqua Tcl/Tk on OSX and use what you have on Linux - ideal).

So I dont have to write to a lowest common installation of PerlTk and
I don't have to explain in excruciating detail how to install PerlTk
on a variety of systems that I do not have access to. Suits me.

Also when I get to upgrade my Ruby version of this class it too can 
use the same shell. Go ahead and learn Tcl and Tk - it's rather 
usefull in it's own way.

INSTALLATION

 % perl Makefile.PL
 % make
 % make test
 % sudo make install

TEST FAILURES

The tests are there to make sure that I have broken nothing when I
fiddle with the code and will teach you very little about how to use
the code. 

To see how to use the code look at simpleshell in the bin directory
and read the contents of the docs directory (when I have written them).

I am assuming that you know what an expert system is and know why 
you are even running this code for in the first place.

TO DO

* More documentation (you can never have too much)

REQUIREMENTS

* Developed under 5.6.1 but should work on anything 5+.
* Written completely in Perl. XS is not required.
* Requires XML::Twig to parse the XML

AUTHOR

Peter Hickman <peterhi@ntlworld.com>

Copyright (c) 2003, Peter Hickman. All rights reserved.

This module is free software. It may be used, redistributed and/or 
modified under the same terms as Perl itself.

CHANGES IN THIS RELEASE

V1.02:
      - The explain method now works

V1.01:
      - Implemented the reset method
	  - Simpleshell now works with the consult the Tcl/Tk shell
	  - Included a copy of the Tcl/Tk shell

V1.00:
      - First release to CPAN
