The source files in this distribution are
Copyright (C) 2000-2003 Peter Behroozi and are
licensed for use under the same terms as Perl itself.

CGI::SecureState

NOTE: If you are upgrading from the 0.2x series, you must read the documentation
or risk FIRE, DISASTER, or SUDDEN DEATH from upper management when they
realize that all your scripts have nasty warnings at the top.  Perhaps yours
are more relaxed than that, but now that I have your attention, read the
documentation anyway as it contains important updates.


CGI::SecureState is a module that provides a transparent and secure way to
maintain state between HTTP requests.  It was originally written to resemble
CGI::Persistent as closely as possible.  To install CGI::SecureState, all you
should have to do is the standard

% perl Makefile.PL
% make
% make install

Then test the installation:

% make test

and everything should work.

This assumes that you have the following:
Long file names (at least 27 chars): needed to ensure remote ticket
	authenticity.

Crypt::Blowfish: it couldn't be called "Secure" without.  At some point in
	the future (as better algorithms become available), this
	requirement may be changed.  Tested with versions 2.06, 2.09.

Digest::SHA1: for super-strong (160 bit) hashing of data.  It is used in
	key generation and filename generation.  Tested with versions 1.03,
        2.01.

CGI: it couldn't be called "CGI" without.  Should not be a problem as it
	comes standard with Perl 5.004 and above.

Fcntl:  for file flags that are portable (like LOCK_SH and SEEK_SET).  Comes
	with Perl.

File::Spec: for concatenating directories and filenames in a portable way.
	Comes with Perl.

Perl: Hmmm.  Tested with stable releases from v5.005_03 to v5.8.0.
	There may be several bugs induced by lower versions of Perl, which
	are not limited to the failure to compile, the failure to behave
	properly, or the mysterious absence of your favorite pair of lemming
	slippers.  The author is exempt from wrongdoing and liability,
	especially if you decide to use CGI::SecureState with a version of Perl
	less than 5.005_03.
