 To install the OpenGL module, please follow these instructions:

 1. Update your development environment with the latest OpenGL header
    and lib files.  If you are using a GPU, get the latest drivers
    from your vendor.

    Install FreeGLUT (or compatible) - you can find this at
    http://freeglut.sourceforge.net/.  NOTE: Strawberry Perl
    includes the FreeGLUT library and the binary distributions
    at http://www.sisyphusion.tk provide the needed FreeGLUT
    as well.

    On 32-bit MS Windows, a binary FreeGLUT library is installed
    automatically by this module if needed.
    
    On Mac OS X (Leopard and newer), GLUT is available in the default
    OpenGL programming environment with sufficient extensions (added
    by Apple) to support full functionality.
    
    On most Linux distributions FreeGLUT is available via their
    package installers.

    The 'include' subfolder provided with this module contains
    headers that this module has been tested with.

    This module looks for libGL.so, libGLU.so and libglut.so
    (opengl32.dll, glu32.dll and freeglut.dll on Windows) in the normal
    places for your OS installation.  You may need to symlink libraries
    from various vendors to the proper place/names.

    Note:  If you will be installing OpenGL::Image, it is recommended,
    but not required, that you install PerlMagick (6.3.5 or newer) first,
    as this will dramatically simplify and enhance your ability/performance
    in loading/saving images/textures via OpenGL::Image - see INSTALL note
    in the OpenGL::Image module.

 
 2. Run 'perl Makefile.PL'

    Makefile.PL attempts to detemine your OS and available libs.

    You can override these defaults by specifying addiional
    options, shown in square brackets []:

        perl Makefile.PL [verbose] [interface=<XFACE>] [dist=<EXCLUSION SETTING>]

    The "verbose" option provides additional diagnostic output messages
    which can be helpful for troubleshooting and bug reports.

    For the "interface" option, <XFACE> is one of the following strings:
			      
        FREEGLUT		Default window interface
        GLUT			Fallback if FreeGLUT is not available
        AGL			GLUT framework on Mac OS X
        GLX			Legacy X11+GLX, use FreeGLUT instead
	W32API                  FreeGLUT and W32API OpenGL on CYGWIN
	WGL                     Same as W32API

    Specifying the interface directly should not be needed except
    where there is some ambiguity in the available interfaces (i.e.
    you have FreeGLUT, GLUT, and GLX on your system).  If you have
    FreeGLUT and OpenGL installed, it should just work with the defaults.

    *Please* let us know if it doesn't.

    Makefile.PL will attempt to build and run a glversion utility to
    determine what version and extensions your OpenGL installation
    supports, and will create an gl_exclude.h header file to exclude
    APIs your libraries do not support.  You can manually edit this
    file to override excluded extensions.


    Note: glversion assumes libGL.so and libglut.so
    (opengl32.dll and freeglut.dll on Windows) - and that it will
    be run via a GUI window (eg. X11 on Unix).  This may impact
    automated build systems.


    For building POGL without extension exclusions, use:

        perl Makefile.PL dist=NO_EXCLUSIONS

    Note: NO_EXCLUSIONS is the default for Windows; this can be
    overridden by using the EXCLUSIONS option.


    To install in non-standard locations, use the INSTALL_BASE option
    when generating the Makefiles:

       perl Makefile.PL INSTALL_BASE=BASEPATH

    where BASEPATH is the path of the directory where you wish
    the module to be installed (e.g. binary executables in BASEPATH/bin,
    manual pages in BASEPATH/man, library files in BASEPATH/lib/perl5).

    Then either set the PERL5LIB environment variable before you run
    scripts that use the modules/libraries (see perlrun) or in your
    programs say:
 
      use lib 'BASEPATH/lib/perl5';


 3. Run 'make' ('nmake' on Windows, 'dmake' on MinGW) to build OpenGL.

 
 4. Run 'make test' ('nmake test' on Windows, 'dmake test' on MinGW) to
    test your installation.  You must have GLUT installed in order to run
    this test.  You should see a spinning cube with textured surfaces.
    Press 'q' to quit/complete the test (the test window must have focus).

    Note: Automated builds will normally fail this test, as it requires
    the ability to open a GL context (window) and provide user input.

 
 5. If all is well, run 'sudo make install' ('nmake install on Windows',
    and 'dmake install' with MinGW) to intall the OpenGL module onto
    your system.


 6. It is recommended (though not required) that you also install the
    OpenGL::Image and OpenGL::Shader modules to enhance POGL's features.


Read the included README files for additional notes on your particular
platform.
