 Copyright (c) 1998,1999 Kenneth Albanowski. All rights reserved.
 Copyright (c) 2000 Ilya Zakharevich. All rights reserved.
 Copyright (c) 2007 Bob Free. All rights reserved.
 Copyright (c) 2009-2013 Chris Marshall. All rights reserved.
 Copyright (c) 2015 Bob Free. All rights reserved.
 Copyright (c) 2016 Chris Marshall. All rights reserved.
 This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
 modify it under the same terms as Perl itself. 


Perl OpenGL: a.k.a. POGL

As of OpenGL-0.57 POGL now requires FreeGLUT (GLUT on Mac OS X)
for full functionality:

  http://freeglut.sourceforge.net/

This was due to licensing constraints and lack of window close events
in GLUT.  Efforts are being made to support the original GLUT with
reduced functionality and limited to the common subset of operations.


NOTE: FreeGLUT distributions on Linux are deployed as libglut.so files,
making it difficult to detect whether GLUT or FreeGLUT is installed.
As such, FreeGLUT is assumed.  See INSTALL for options to override
this default.


NOTE: POGL automatically installs a binary FreeGLUT library on 32bit
      win32 perl platforms.


POGL provides access to most of the OpenGL 1.0, 1.1, and 1.2 APIs, and
many OpenGL Extensions, such as Framebuffer Objects (FBOs) and Vertex
Array Objects (VBOs).

Some amount of GLU is supported, and GLUT is completely supported up
to API version 3, with some support for 4.0 and FreeGlut 2.4.0.  A small
portion of GLX and X11 may still be supported, but this is deprecated
in favor of FreeGLUT and will be removed in the future.  If you use
this functionality, please let us know.


Compatibility notes with OpenGL 0.4:

    The OpenGL 0.4 library, written by Stan Melax, contains more
    support for some SGI specific functions then 0.5, so you may
    wish to stay with 0.4 on an SGI system. For other machines,
    0.5 should greatly improve compatibility (compiling where 0.4
    wouldn't have).
    
    Code-level compatibility with OpenGL 0.4 is available if you
    refer to OpenGL simply via 'use OpenGL;'. If you request specific
    packages (such as 'use OpenGL qw(glfunctions glconstants
    glutfunctions);'), you'll get 0.5 specific support.  For more
    information, please read the OpenGL manual, available in OpenGL.pod.
    
    Portions of this module that directly derive from Stan's code
    are marked with "Melax" comments, and his copyright is described
    in the COPYRIGHT file.

As this library is a simple binding between Perl and any library
that complies with the OpenGL API, this module should interoperate
seamlessly with any other modules that make use of OpenGL directly
or (through another library) indirectly.

For build instructions, please see the INSTALL file.

For a brief description of what functions are supported, please read
"SUPPORTS", and better yet read the two sample files, test.pl and
isosurf.pl.

Thanks for help developing this module goes to Stan Melax, Cass Everitt,
Alligator Descarte, and probably others that I've forgotten.

Happy Hacking,
Kenneth Albanowski <kjahds@kjahds.com>

As of April 13, 2007, Bob Free has assumed primary ownership of
this module.

As of July 03, 2011, Chris Marshall started the Perl OpenGL Project
at http://sourceforge.net/projects/pogl/ .  All development and
module support going forward has moved there.

Chris Marshall is the current maintainer of this module.



DISTRIBUTIONS:

CPAN: http://search.cpan.org/~chm/	# for latest CPAN version

GIT: git clone git://pogl.git.sourceforge.net/gitroot/pogl/pogl

PPM for 32-bit perl 5.8 +: http://www.sisyphusion.tk/ppm/OpenGL.ppd

PPM for 64-bit perl 5.10+: http://www.sisyphusion.tk/ppm/OpenGL.ppd
