NAME
    Aspect::Library::Trace - Aspect-oriented function call tracing

SYNOPSIS
      use Aspect;
      use Aspect::Library::Trace;
      
  aspect Trace => call qr/^Foo::/;
      
  Foo::foo1
        Foo::foo2
          Foo::foo3
      Foo::foo2
        Foo::foo3
      Foo::foo2
        Foo::foo3

DESCRIPTION
    Aspect Oriented Programming is a programming paradigm that increases
    modularity by enabling improved separation of concerns.

    It is most useful when dealing with cross-cutting concerns that would
    otherwise require code to be scattered around in many places.

    Aspect::Library::Trace is an Aspect library that implements nested
    functional call tracing, in the style formerly offered by the "dprofpp
    -T" command provided by Devel::DProf (before that module became
    unusable).

  Conventional Usage
    The basic usage is very simple, just create an "Trace" aspect as shown
    in the "SYNOPSIS".

    Load Aspect, then Aspect::Library::Trace, then create the aspect using
    the "aspect" function.

    Any calls to functions described in the pointcut will be printed to
    "STDERR". Nesting is indicated via indenting.

    Because the depth is tracked at a per-Aspect level, you should avoid
    creating more than one trace Aspect or the indenting levels will be
    mixed up and the output will become largely meaningless.

  Import Usage
    For even more convenience (and even less typing) you can use the
    following shorthand 1-line form.

      use Aspect::Library::Trace qr/^Module::/;

    When used this way, you also don't need to "use Aspect".

SUPPORT
    Bugs should be reported via the CPAN bug tracker at

    <http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/ReportBug.html?Queue=Aspect-Library-Trace>

    For other issues, contact the author.

AUTHOR
    Adam Kennedy <adamk@cpan.org>

SEE ALSO
    Aspect

COPYRIGHT
    Copyright 2009 - 2011 Adam Kennedy.

    This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
    under the same terms as Perl itself.

    The full text of the license can be found in the LICENSE file included
    with this module.

