IKC developement is sort of stalled right now, for 2 reasons : it does
everything I currently need (and I don't have the time to add the extra
features) AND I'm spending some time thinking about how to improve the
design.

I've come to realise that IKC is 3 things :

- Dealing with a pre-forking POE server and babysitting the children
  processes
        This should be factored out into a standalone component.

- Protocol and implementation for sending events between kernels.
        I want to rework the current protocol (which uses 3 states and is
slightly fragile if either end misbehaves) and add XML-RPC (and maybe
SOAP) support.  And add other IPC options (unix sockets).  And clean up
event parameter handling.
        The currently version has no access control mechanisms.  This was
a deliberate choice.  I think access control should be layered on top of
IKC.  This will have to be dealt with if I decide to expose XML-RPC
interfaces.

- Dealing with "clusters" of kernels
        I call these "clouds of kernels".  I would like IKC to be able to
automagically fall-over to other kernels that publish the same
sessions/states when a foreign kernels become unavaible.  This means IKC
has to be able to automatically find/register remote kernels and stuff.  
Currently, I've only implemented auto-reconnect and proxy sessions.  The
latter I would like to extend to proxy-objects (object methods get
converted into calls to remote kernels).

And, off in the far future, I would like to add transaction processing
and crash recovery.  (This might not be a distant future, because I'm
going to be reimplement an e-commerce application that does credit card
validation this spring and transactions would make this much funner).

Ancillary stuff : a distributed application framework (interfaces,
"scripting", error handling) built on top of IKC.  I'm going to be working
on this in the next few months.

(Why do I get the feeling I'm reimplementing CORBA? :)

So that's roughly the state of IKC at this moment.  You have been warned.

