NAME
  App::CPANTS::Lint - front-end to Module::CPANTS::Analyse

SYNOPSIS
      use App::CPANTS::Lint;

      my $app = App::CPANTS::Lint->new(verbose => 1);
      $app->lint('path/to/Foo-Dist-1.42.tgz') or print $app->report;

      # if you need raw data
      $app->lint('path/to/Foo-Dist-1.42.tgz') or return $app->result;

      # if you need to look at the details of analysis
      $app->lint('path/to/Foo-Dist-1.42.tgz');
      print Data::Dumper::Dumper($app->stash);

DESCRIPTION
  App::CPANTS::Lint is a core of "cpants_lint.pl" script to check
  the Kwalitee of a distribution. See the script for casual usage.
  You can also use this from other modules for finer control.

METHODS
 new
  Takes an optional hash (which will be passed into
  Module::CPANTS::Analyse internally) and creates a linter object.

  Available options are:

  verbose
      Makes Module::CPANTS::Analyse verbose. False by default.

  core_only
      If true, the "lint" method (see below) returns true even if
      "extra" metrics (as well as "experimental" metrics) fail. This
      may be useful if you only care Kwalitee rankings. False by
      default.

  experimental
      If true, failed "experimental" metrics are also reported (via
      "report" method). False by default. Note that "experimental"
      metrics are not taken into account while calculating a score.

  save
      If true, "output_report" method writes to a file instead of
      writing to STDOUT.

  dump, yaml, json
      If true, "report" method returns a formatted dump of the stash
      (see below).

  search_path
      If you'd like to use extra metrics modules, pass a reference
      to an array of their parent namespace(s) to search. Metrics
      modules under Module::CPANTS::Kwalitee namespace are always
      used.

 lint
  Takes a path to a distribution tarball and analyses it. Returns
  true if the distribution has no significant issues (experimental
  metrics are always ignored). Otherwise, returns false.

  Note that the result doesn't always match with what is shown at
  the CPANTS website, because there are metrics that are only
  available at the site for various reasons (some of them require
  database connection, and some are not portable enough).

 report
  Returns a report string that contains the details of failed
  metrics (even if "lint" method returns true) and a Kwalitee score.

  If "dump" (or "yaml", "json") is set when you create an
  App::CPANTS::Lint object, "report" returns a formatted dump of the
  stash.

 result
  Returns a reference to a hash that contains the details of failed
  metrics and a Kwalitee score. Internal structure may change
  without notice, but it always has an "ok" field (which holds a
  return value of "lint" method) at least.

 stash
  Returns a reference to a hash that contains the details of
  analysis (stored in a stash in Module::CPANTS::Analyse). Internal
  structure may change without notice, but it always has a
  "kwalitee" field (which holds a reference to a hash that contains
  the result of each metric) at least.

 score
  Returns a Kwalitee score.

 output_report
  Writes a report to STDOUT (or to a file).

 report_file
  Returns a path to a report file, which should have the same
  distribution name with a version, plus an extension appropriate to
  the output format. (eg. "Foo-Bar-1.42.txt", "Foo-Bar-1.42.yml"
  etc)

SEE ALSO
  Module::CPANTS::Analyse

  Test::Kwalitee

AUTHOR
  Kenichi Ishigaki, <ishigaki@cpan.org>

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
  This software is copyright (c) 2014 by Kenichi Ishigaki.

  This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
  under the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system
  itself.

