
NAME
    CPAN-Test-Dummy-Perl5-Exists - CPAN Test Dummy Exists sample module

SYNOPSIS
        use CPAN::Test::Dummy::Perl5::Exists;
    
        my $name = CPAN::Test::Dummy::Perl5::Exists->dummy;

DESCRIPTION
    This module exists for the sake of existence. Hence it's name.

    This module has been created for use testing suites. It contains no
    function(s) for actual use, and exists only to provide certain
    guarantees regarding it's own existance.

    This module will never exist in the CPAN index. It appears as a
    developer release, and will never be deleted.

    In the CPAN master repository, or in a full mirror, it will exist
    forever as TAINT/CPAN-Test-Dummy-Perl5-Exists-0.01.tar.gz.

  Module Guarantees
    1. Contains no functionality, and never will.

    2. Has no non-core depencies, and will never posses any.

    3. Exists on CPAN.

    4. Does not exist in the CPAN index, and never will.

    6. No release will ever be deleted from the CPAN.

  Uses for This Module
    This allows for several types of testing to be done.

    Filename related issues can be tested with a known developer release.

    The module name and path can be hard-coded into tests without risk
    that the file will later dissapear.

    Because it should always exist on a full mirror, but never exist on
    an index-only mirror (such as those created by minicpan), then if
    the mirror is already known to exist, the existance of this module
    can be used to differentiate the type of a mirror between full or
    index-only.

    In combination with other CPAN Dummy modules, other types of
    situations may also be able to be set up to test the behaviour in
    those situations.

METHODS
    CPAN::Test::Dummy::Perl5::Exists is derived from Adam Kennedy's
    PITA::Test::Dummy::Perl5::Make.

  dummy
    Returns the dummy's name, in this case 'Ms Nadda'

AUTHOR
    C Hutchinson "<taint at cpan.org>"

SUPPORT
    None. No support is available for Ms Nadda.

SEE ALSO
    CPAN

COPYRIGHT & LICENSE
    Copyright 2013 C Hutchinson, all rights reserved.

    This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the same terms as Perl itself.
