NAME
    App::GUI::Harmonograph - sculpting beautiful circular drawings

SYNOPSIS
    1.  read this POD or check dialogs from help menu

    2.  start the program ("harmonograph")

    3.  move knobs and observe how preview sketch reacts til you got an
        interesting configuration

    4.  push *Draw* (right below drawing board or "Ctrl+D") to produce full
        image

    5.  choose *Save* in *Image* menu (or "Ctrl+S") to store image in a PNG
        / JPEG / SVG file

    6.  choose *Write* in settings menu ("Ctrl+W") to save settings into an
        INI file for tweaking them later

    Please note that quick preview gets only triggered by the pendulum
    controls (section X, Y, Z and R).

    After first use of the program, a config file *.harmonograph* will be
    created in you home directory. You may move it into your *Documents* or
    your local directory, from where the app is started.

DESCRIPTION
    An Harmonograph is an apparatus with several connected pendula, creating
    together spiraling pictures :

    This is a cybernetic recreation of an Prof. Blackburns invention with
    several enhancements:

    *   third pendulum can rotate

    *   pendula can oscillate at none integer frequencies

    *   separate complex amplitude and frequency damping

    *   draw lines or dots with changeable density and size

    *   3 types of color changes with changeable speed and polynomial
        dynamics

Mechanics
    The classic Harmonograph is sturdy metal rack which does not move while
    3 pendula swing independently. Let us call the first pendulum X, because
    it only moves along the x-axis (left to right and back). In the same
    fashion the second (Y) only moves up and down. When both are connected
    to a pen, we get a combination of both movements. As long as X and Y
    swing at the same speed, the result is a diagonal line. Because when X
    goes right Y goes up and vice versa. But if we start one pendulum at the
    center and the other at the upmost position we get a circle. In other
    words: we added an offset of 90 degrees to Y (or X). Our third pendulum
    Z moves the paper and does exactly the already described circular
    movement without rotating around its center. If both circular movements
    (of X, Y and Z) are concurrent - the pen just stays at one point over
    the paper, If both are countercurrent - we get a circle. Interesting
    things start to happen, if we alter the speed of of X, Y and Z. Than
    famous harmonic pattern appear. And for even more complex drawings I
    added R, which is not really a pendulum, but an additional rotary
    movement of Z around its center. The pendula out of metal do of course
    fizzle out over time, which you can see in the drawing, in a spiraling
    movement toward the center. We emulate this with two damping factors:
    one for amplitude and one for the frequency (speed).

GUI
    The general layout of the program has three parts, which flow from the
    position of the drawing board.

    1   In the left upper corner is the drawing board - showing the result
        of the Harmonograph.

    2   The whole right half of the window contains the settings, which
        guide the drawing operation. These are divided into four tabs -
        roughly devided in form (3) and decoration (last one).

    3   The lower left side contains buttons which trigger a few commands,
        mostly for mass productions of image files. All the other commands
        are only reachable in the main menu or by keyboard (key combinations
        are displayed in the menu).

    Please mind the tool tips - short help texts which appear if the mouse
    stands still over a button or slider. Also helpful are messages in the
    status bar at the bottom - on bottom left regarding images and bottom
    right about settings. When brwosing the main menu, help texts about the
    highlighted item also appears in the status bar. The Menu can be
    completely navigated with the keyboard. Just hold Alt and use the
    direction keys (up, down, left and right) or the highlighted letters.
    When holding the Alt key you can also see which Alt + letter
    combinations trigger which button.

  Pendulum
    The first tab contains the settings that define the properties of the
    lateral pendula (X and Y), which move along the x and y axis in a
    straight manner. On the second tab are identical controls for the
    pendula Z and R which together with X and Y determine the shape of the
    drawing. Z does a circling movement, R is a rotation (around Z's axis or
    origin).

    All controls from top to bottom and left to right are: an on/off switch
    which activates the whole pendulum with all settings. After that follows
    the pendulum's amplitude (here called radius). This determines the size
    in the direction the pendulum moves. Below that follows amplitude
    damping, which reduces the amplitude over time, so that the drawing will
    spiral toward the center. Since this is all computed, time refers to the
    line length. Damping can take place in a steady (minus '-') or in a
    slowing, procentual manner ('*'). The third row is labeled acceleration,
    which refers to an additional dynamic of the amplitude damping.

    The forth row lets you dial in the speed (frequency). This is the most
    fundamental to the shape. For instance 2 means that the pendulum swings
    back and fourth twice as fast. To the right you can choose an additional
    factor the frequency gets multiplied with. This can be a constant like
    Pi or Phi or the frequency of another pendulum or just simply one. This
    is especially handy when browsing the classic shapes with three pendula.
    For these the frequency of X and Y has to be the same - which will be
    ensured when you set the frequency factor of Y to X (or vice versa) and
    keep the frequency of Y to one. The next combo control below adds
    decimals to the frequency value for more complex rotating drawings.
    Behind that are two check boxes to invert the final frequency value to
    1/x or to flip the direction of the pendulum. Below that follows a
    frequency damping, which works the same as the second row only with
    slightly different optical results.

    The last row starts with a slider to fine tune the starting point of the
    pendulum. It can be chosen between zero and a quater rotation. This can
    have great effects on the shape. Because of the special desirability
    offsets of an half (180 degree) or quarter (90 degree) rotation can be
    activated by checkbox (to the right of the slider). The final offset is
    the sum of the checked.

  Mod Matrix
    The third tab allows the deepest alterations to the drawing, which leave
    the original concept of a Harmonograph. For instance the X - Pendulum is
    basically a little more than the a cosine function to the time variable.
    Here you can change that to sine, tangent or other trigonometric
    functions. Same goes for Y and Z. R is a function of an rotation matrix.
    Here you can change every of its four elements (with next version).

  Line
    The last tab on the right contains the visual properties (of the pen).
    In left upper corner yo set the amount of rotations (swings) to be
    drawn. Right beside is the distance between dots. Greater distances,
    together with color changes, help to clearify muddled up drawings. Also
    - many rotations and little distance between dots will slow down the
    computation. In the second row left is a checkbox to answer if the dots
    should be connected. The fourth selector sets the dot size in pixel.
    Zero mens here very thin = one half of an pixel - which is still
    visible, but very airy.

  Colors
    Below that on the last tab are the options for colorization and this has
    in itself three parts. Topmost are the settings for the color change,
    which is set on default to *no*. In that case only the upper *start
    color* (below the color change section) will be used, and not the *end
    color* (target - which is even below that).

    Both colors can be changed via controls for the red, green and blue
    value (see labels "R", "G" and "B" ) or hue, saturation and lightness
    (HSL). The result can be seen in the color monitor at the center of a
    color browser.

    An one time or alternating gradient between both colors with different
    dynamics (first in second row) can be employed. Circular gradients
    travel around the rainbow through a complement color with saturation and
    lightness of the target settings. Steps size refers always to how maby
    circles are draw before the color changes.

    The third part of the tab grants you access to the color section of the
    config file ".harmonograph". There you can store your favorite colors
    under a name and reload or delete them later. The upper row is for
    interactions with the *start color* and the lower with the *end color*.

  Commands
    In the lower left corner are two rows of command buttons. All other
    commands are in the menu.

    The upper row has only one button for making a full drawing. This might
    take some time if line length and dot density are high. For that reason
    - only changes on the pendulum settings (first two tabs) produce an
    sketch drawing, helping the user understand the nature his changes. A
    sketch contains only the first five pendulum swings, so it can be drawn
    fast enough for almost immediate interactions. For a full drawing that
    takes all settings into account you need to push *Draw* button or Press
    "Ctrl + D".

    The second row has commands to quickly save many files. First push *Dir*
    to select the directory and then type directly into the second text
    field the file base name. The index in the next one is found
    automatically. Every time you now press *Save* a file with the current
    image is saved under the path: dir + base name + index + ending (set in
    Menu: Image &gt; Format and saved in configs). The index automatically
    autoincrements when producing a file. Push button *INI* next to it to
    also save the settings of the current state under same file name, but
    with the ending ".ini".

  Menu
    The upmost menu bar has only three very simple menus. Please not that
    each menu shows which key combination triggers the same command and
    while hovering over an menu item you see a short help text the left
    status bar field.

    The first menu is for loading and storing setting files with arbitrary
    names. I recommend giving them the file ending ".ini" for transparency
    reasons. A submenu allows a quick load of the recently used files. The
    first entry lets you reset the whole program to the starting state and
    the last is just to exit (safely with saving the configs).

    The second menu has only two commands for drawing an complete image and
    saving it in an arbitrary named PNG, JPG or SVG file (the file ending
    decides). The submenu above only sets the preferred format, which is the
    format of the serially save images by the command buttons in the left
    lower corner. The preferred file format is also the first wild card in
    the save dialog. Above that is another submenu for setting the image
    size.

    The third menu has some dialogs with documentation and additional
    information.

SEE ALSO
    App::GUI::Cellgraph

    App::GUI::Dynagraph

AUTHOR
    Herbert Breunung (lichtkind@cpan.org)

COPYRIGHT & LICENSE
    Copyright(c) 2022 by Herbert Breunung

    All rights reserved. This program is free software and can be used,
    changed and distributed under the GPL 3 licence.

