The tooltips for backend keywords were lost, we should probably create a
third subcolumn in the Config Statements column to show them.

Features not in first version:
    main_listing row_options and header_options don't allow alternate urls
    table data statements are not supported (ignored during loading,
    discarded during output).
    controller level literal blocks

Order adjustments are not even conceived yet, but we need them for:
    app level blocks
    fields in tables
    html_form_options

Tests.
    More are always merrier, but there are quite a few.

Have a way for backends to register legal controller and method types and
to say which statements apply to that type.  Then either show only those
statements or at least enable or highlight only those supported by the
current type.  Also, include a required flag for statements which must
appear (like controls_table for main_listing methods).

Disable app statement boxes when none of the understanding backends is
selected?

Disable field statement entry boxes when the proper type is not selected?

Disable input fields for backends which are not selected?  (But, note
that this does not remove the need to take values from these fields
when the backend is reselected.)

Make selecting a backend (checking its box) scan the input fields
in the far right column looking for existing values.

When App Config Block 'Value' entries are blanked, bad things happen.
(The value gets set to 'true' or 'undefined' etc.)
    Fixed for fields that are made at page load time, but not
    for fields created later.
    Further, when a field is created, the statement should be
    made with `` as the value (in case that is what is needed).

Work on styling.

Widen all input text boxes.  They are currently microscopic in comparison
to the data they need to hold.

Consider long range improvements that would preserve comments and
whitespace in deparse output.  These would require major grammar work.

Make a Gantry::Conf check box which does and undoes the following:
    if the engine is mod_perl
        adds skip_config statement to backend block for HttpdConf Gantry
        adds literal `PerlSetVar GantryConfInstance appname`
        adds Conf General backend
    if the engine is CGI
        adds instance statement with appname to backend block

Make the subsequent pages:
    Tables
    Controllers

Add full support for literals.

Add support for table level data statements (which are more like literals
than like other statements, since they can be repeated and their order
could conceivably matter).

Done:

rel_location and location are not highlighting properly at the controller
level.
    This was a problem with the httpd conf backend not using B::Keywords
    to register its keywords.

Implement literal blocks
    These are avaiable at the app level only.

It would be nice if there were tabs instead of collapsing sections at the
top level.  Further, each section should have a little summary of what it's
for.
    I haven't decided how to make the summaries yet.

Required for and applies to are needed.
    This is not so easy.  In response, I have color coded fields based
    on the urgency with which you must attend to them.  Red for required,
    yellow for mostly required (usually pick one or the other), and green
    and blue for things you frequently need.

Examples are needed (especially for things like constraints).

Generated styling default is still unexceptable.
    we could rename the generated wrapper to genwrapper.tt and look for that
    then we would never see the one in gantry root which always make us
    look so bad.

Delete buttons on block level and subblock level elements don't work (or
don't appear at all, in the case of subblocks).

Try to build a name/phone app AND build it.

Creating a table should give you an id field by default (or not).

The default bigtop file in the __DATA__ section of TentMaker.pm is weak.

For multiples, create two empty fields instead of one.  This prevents
bounce problems with tabbing and shows clearly that multiple items are
allowed when none are currently supplied.

Method creation button doesn't work.

Method creation has no type selector.

Controller type selection for existing controllers doesn't work.

Change the grammar so table_block_elements and field_statements are optional.

Renaming needs seious help starting with a unique block id assigned during
parsing and block creation.
Example: When a field is renamed, none of its statements can be updated.
When the name of a table changes, change the name on the
Delete Table ... button.  Same for sequence, controller, etc.

Start from scratch pretty much doesn't work.

Make saving put something into the chat area, but this means we need
to clear it on a regular basis (like in redraw).

Once an item has been created, the name field should be reset.

When pairs have a key, but no value, the ordering of the result is off.
We need to make sure that the proper number of ][s get put into the values
portion of the query string.

Adding new html_form_options does not work.

Boolean field statements are not operative.

Blanking a field statement's value does not remove it, but also gives no
error output.

There is no support for adding pairs as statement values.  That should
be seemless.

Centralize the documentation of keywords.  If multiple backends want
to register it, there should be a simple place they can delegate to
with just the keyword name and level.  The central place will have
definitive docs, etc.
    See Bigtop::Keywords

Factor out the dojo.html.createNodesFromText code so we don't need
that whole library.

Start from scratch app config block doesn't update values.
    It only looked like it was making the statements.  It couldn't.
    Now it can.

Backend keyword values are not being properly quoted.

Can't set app level statement values if none of them have values.

When I enter a foreign display with an embedded comma, it gets turned
into two items.

Move the initial file parsing back to first browser hit?
    Not done.  Mooted by move to precompiled grammar.

Make the mouse pointer change from I-beam to click selection when
over clickable divs.

Get all the Backends on the system for the backend list.  Make check
boxes for these which enable a set of text input boxes where values can
be added for the commands the backend understands.  (This requires
some better methods for determining what statements are legal.)

Move the initial file parsing penalty to server start time.

Put watchers on the config backend block statement checkboxes and text fields.

Make a way to control the input type of keyword statement tables.

Create a backend method for dumping the AST back to text.

Make it possible to change the app name and save the result.

