NAME
    SoggyOnion - RSS and other arbitrary content aggregatron

SYNOPSIS
        $ soggyonion-install
        $ vim/emacs config.yaml
        $ soggyonion config.yaml
        $ crontab -e

DESCRIPTION
    NOTE: This is a pre-release. I need to add tests, among other things.
    Functionality is here, though.

    SoggyOnion is an RSS and arbitrary content aggregator that produces
    static pages. It was written to be easily installable and configurable
    as well as trivial to extend. It is meant for people that want to view
    RSS feeds and other scraped content as a web page and want minimal setup
    and configuration.

  Installation
    The module creates two executables, soggyonion and soggyonion-install.
    Once the SoggyOnion module is installed, do the following:

    1. Change to a directory where you'd like to keep the configuration file
    and defaults, then run the soggyonion-install command. This will extract
    a handful of files to the current directory.
    2. Edit the config.yaml configuration file. To get started quickly, just
    make sure the four options in the first section are correct.
    3. Run the soggyonion command with th

  Customizing the Output
    All sources of content are found in the config.yaml file. The main
    template, templates/main.tt2, contains all the CSS.

  Extending
    See: SoggyOnion::Plugin

  Why is it called "SoggyOnion?"
    I purchased the domain "soggyonion.com" on complete impulse. When I
    wrote this I finally made use of that silly domain and I kept the name.

    I not longer own this domain.

  Why don't I use (RSS utility here)?
    If you like it better, please do. I welcome all suggestions and
    constructive criticism (a.k.a. complaints), so fire away :-)

    I wanted a tool where I could specify a few sources of RSS/RDF and have
    it produce categorized, static pages for me that could be easily
    customized through templates and CSS. I'm also not yet convinced that
    everything should be RSS -- SoggyOnion can be used as a front-end for
    any scraped content.

SEE ALSO
    SoggyOnion::Plugin, XML::RSS, YAML

AUTHOR
    Ian Langworth, "<ian@cpan.org>"

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
    Copyright (C) 2004 by Ian Langworth

    This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
    under the same terms as Perl itself.

