
Net::EPP::Registry::Nominet version 0.04

Released: 30th July 2019


INSTALLATION
------------

To install this module you can follow the usual procedure which is:

	perl Makefile.PL
	make
	make test
	make install

Note that most of the tests will be skipped unless you provide a tag and
a password for connection to the Nominet EPP Testbed. See
http://registrars.nominet.org.uk/registration-and-domain-management/registrar-systems/epp/testbed
for details of how to register for the testbed. Before running "make
test", set up the environment variables NOMTAG and NOMPASS like so:

	export NOMTAG=MYTAG NOMPASS=mypass

If you have the CPAN module installed then you can install the module
from the command line like so:

	$ cpan Net::EPP::Registry::Nominet


DESCRIPTION
-----------

Net::EPP::Registry::Nominet is designed to allow synchronous management
of .uk domains.

This module extends Net::EPP::Simple to cope with the unorthodox EPP
implementation currently in use by Nominet, the registry with
responsibility for the .uk namespace. It is intended to have a
compatible interface to Net::EPP::Simple so far as is practical.


NEW SINCE LAST PRODUCTION VERSION
---------------------------------

Deploy and document "disclose" fields for contacts
Remove all opt-out references from the code and tests
Allow selection of OT&E endpoint.
Return DS records in secDNS element from domain_info (RT 129917)
Test against OT&E instead of testbed
Allow check_* to return scalars on demand
Explicitly disable ssl verification if verify param not set.
Add disclosure of owner/address info.
Add get_debug and set_debug as methods.
Add support for listing tags.
Fix/skip tests which fail due to testbed server problems.
Some more argument checks.
Minor documentation fixes.
Excise obsolete code.
Move repo to gitlab.

See the Changes file for a complete history.


DOCUMENTATION
-------------

All of the documentation is in POD format in the module source. Once the
module has been installed you can use

	perldoc Net::EPP::Registry::Nominet

to read it. Alternatively, you can view the man page with

	man Net::EPP::Registry::Nominet


COPYRIGHT
---------

This software is copyright (c) 2013-2019 by Pete Houston. It is released
under the Artistic Licence (version 2) and the GNU General Public Licence
(version 2).

