NAME
    Net::Server::POP3 - The Server Side of the POP3 Protocol for email

SYNOPSIS
      use Net::Server::POP3;
      my $server = Net::Server::POP3->new(
        severopts    => \%options,
        authenticate => \&auth,
        list         => \&list,
        retrieve     => \&retrieve,
        delete       => \&delete,
        size         => \&size,
        welcome      => "Welcome to my mail server.",
      );
      $server->startserver();

DESCRIPTION
    Net::Server::POP3 is intended to handle the nitty-gritty details of
    talking to mail clients, so that in writing a custom POP3 server you
    don't have to actually read RFC documents. The backend things (such as
    where mail comes from and what messages are in the user's mailbox at any
    given time) are left up to your code (or another module), but this
    module handles the POP3 protocol for you. Also, the details of listening
    for client connections and so on are handled by Net::Server.

    This approach allows for some flexibility. Your code may choose to
    generate messages on the fly, proxy them from another mail server,
    retrieve them from a local maildir or mailbox of some kind, or whatever.
    See the sample scripts in this distribution for examples.

    This code is still very much beta. There are known bugs. Some things
    (e.g., APOP) haven't even been implemented yet. You have been warned.
    See the Bugs section for details.

    The code as it stands now works, for some definition of "works". With
    the included simpletest.pl script I have successfully served test
    messages that I have retrieved with Mozilla Mail/News. Additionally,
    with the included proxytest.pl script I have successfully proxied mail
    from an ISP mail server to a client. However, much remains to be done.

    It is strongly recommended to run with Taint checking enabled.

    These are the RFCs that I know about and intend to implement:

    http://www.faqs.org/rfcs/rfc1939.html
    http://www.faqs.org/rfcs/rfc2449.html
    If you know of any other RFCs that seem pertinent, let me know.

USAGE
    This module is designed to be the server/daemon itself and so to handle
    all of the communication to/from the client(s). The actual details of
    obtaining, storing, and keeping track of messages are left to other
    modules or to the user's own code. (See the sample scripts simpletest.pl
    (simple) and proxytest.pl (somewhat more involved) in this distribution
    for examples.)

    The main method is startserver(), which starts the server. The following
    named arguments may be passed either to new() or to startserver(). All
    callbacks should be passed as coderefs. If you pass an argument to new()
    and then pass an argument of the same name to startserver(), the one
    passed to startserver() overrides the one passed to new(). stopserver()
    has not been implemented yet and so neither has restartserver(), but
    they are planned for an eventual future version.

    EOL A string containing the characters that should be printed on a
        socket to cause perl to emit an RFC-compliant CRLF. The new default
        is "\015\012", which theoretically should work perfectly everywhere,
        from what I have read, but if you get mangled newlines, this may be
        why. This new default needs testing on as many platforms as possible
        to ensure that it is, in fact, correct everywhere.

        The default used to be "\n", which worked on my development platform
        (Linux Mandrake 9.2). On some systems this needed to be set to
        "\r\n". Setting it to the wrong thing caused breakage either way. If
        the default doesn't work for you, experiment. If you set it to
        "\r\n" on systems where "\n" will work, you get extraneous ^M
        characters on the ends of all the lines at the recieving end, which
        among other things can cause most of the headers not to be
        recognized as such and instead to be displayed in the body,
        depending on the mail client. Going the other way, if you set it to
        "\n" on platforms where "\r\n" would work correctly, the whole thing
        may just not work at all, or other weirdness may ensue, such as the
        entire message (headers, body, and all) appearing on one line.

        The EOL string is optional; you only need to specify it if the
        default is the wrong value.

    port
        The port number to listen on. 110 is the default. The user or group
        you are running as needs permission to listen on this port.

        The port number is optional. You only need to specify it if you want
        to listen on a different port than 110.

    servertype
        A type of server implemented by Net::Server (q.v.) The default is
        'Fork', which is suitable for installations with a small number of
        users.

        The servertype is optional. You only need to specify it if you want
        to use a different type other than 'Fork'.

    serveropts
        A hashref containing extra named arguments to pass to Net::Server.
        Particularly recommended for security reasons are user, group, and
        chroot. See the docs for Net::Server for more information.

        The serveropts hashref is optional. You only need to supply it if
        you have optional arguments to pass through to Net::Server.

    connect
        This callback, if supplied, will be called when a client connects.
        This is the recommended place to allocate resources such as a
        database connection handle.

        The connect callback is optional; you only need to supply it if you
        have setup to do when a client connects.

    disconnect
        This callback, if supplied, is called when the client disconnects.
        If there is any cleanup to do, this is the place to do it. Note that
        message deletion should not be handled here, but in the delete
        callback.

        The disconnect callback is optional; you only need to supply it if
        you have cleanup to do when a client disconnects.

    authenticate
        The authenticate callback is passed a username, password, and IP
        address. If the username and password are valid and the user is
        allowed to connect from that address and authenticate by the
        USER/PASS method, then the callback should try to get a changelock
        on the mailbox and return 1 if successful; it must return something
        other than 1 if any of that fails. (Returning 0 does not specify the
        details of what went wrong; other values may in future versions have
        particular meanings.)

        The authenticate callback is technically optional, but you need to
        supply it if you want any users to be able to log in using the USER
        and PASS commands.

    apop
        Optional callback for handling APOP auth. If the user attempts APOP
        auth and this callback exists, it will be passed the username, the
        digest sent by the user, and the server greeting. If the user's
        digest is indeed the MD5 digest of the concatenation of the server
        greeting and the shared secret for that user, then the callback
        should attempt to lock the mailbox and return true if successful;
        otherwise, return false.

        The apop callback is only needed if you want to supply APOP
        authentication.

        This is not implemented yet, but I plan to implement it in an
        eventual future version.

    list
        The list callback, given a valid, authenticated username, must
        return a list of message-ids of available messages. (Most
        implementations will ingore the username, since they will already be
        locked in to the correct mailbox after authentication. That's fine.
        The username is passed as a help for minimalist implementations.)

        The list callback is required.

    size
        The size callback if it exists will be passed a valid, authenticated
        username and a message id (from the list returned by the list
        callback) and must return the message size in octets. If the size
        callback does not exist, the size will be calculated using the
        retrieve callback, which is inefficient. Providing the size callback
        will prevent the retrieve callback from being called unnecessarily,
        thus improving performance. (Most implementations will ingore the
        username, since they will already be locked in to the correct
        mailbox after authentication. That's fine. The username is passed as
        a help for minimalist implementations.)

        Note that very early versions passed only the message id, not the
        username, to the size callback. This changed in 0.0005, breaking
        backward-compatibility for the size callback.

        The size callback is optional. You only need to provide it if you
        care about performance.

    retrieve
        The retrieve callback must accept a valid, authenticated username
        and a message-id (from the list returned by the list callback) and
        must return the message as a string. (Most implementations will
        ingore the username, since they will already be locked in to the
        correct mailbox after authentication. That's fine. The username is
        passed as a help for minimalist implementations.)

        The retrieve callback is required.

    delete
        The delete callback gets called with a valid, authenticated username
        and a message-id that the user/client has asked to delete. (Most
        implementations will ingore the username, since they will already be
        locked in to the correct mailbox after authentication. That's fine.
        The username is passed as a help for minimalist implementations.)

        The delete callback is only called in cases where the POP3 protocol
        says the message should actually be deleted. If the connection
        terminates abnormally before entering the UPDATE state, the callback
        is not called, so code using this module does not need to concern
        itself with marking and unmarking for deletion. When called, it can
        do whatever it wants, such as actually delete the message, archive
        it permanently, mark it as no longer to be given to this specific
        user, or whatever.

        This callback is technically optional, but you'll need to supply one
        if you want to know when to remove messages from the user's
        maildrop.

    welcome
        This string is used as the welcome string sent to the client upon
        connection. It must not be longer than 506 bytes, for arcane reasons
        involving RFC1939. (startserver will generate a warning at runtime
        if it is too long.)

        The welcome string is optional; a default welcome is supplied.

    logindelay
        If a number is given, it will be announced in the capabilities list
        as the minimum delay (in seconds) between successive logins by the
        same user (which applies to any user). This does NOT enforce the
        delay; it only causes it to be announced in the capabilities list.
        The authenticate callback is responsible for enforcement of the
        delay. The delay SHOULD be enforced if it is announced (RFC 2449).

        If the delay may vary per user, logindelay should be a callback
        routine. If the callback is passed no arguments, it is being asked
        for the maximum delay for all users; if it is passed an argument,
        this will be a valid, authenticated username and the callback should
        return the delay for that particular user. Either way, the return
        value should be a number of seconds. Again, this does NOT enforce
        the delay; it only causes it to be announced in the capabilities
        list. (Some clients may not even ask for the capabilities list, if
        they do not implement POP3 Extensions (RFC 2449).)

        The default is not to announce any particular delay.

    expiretime
        If a number or the string 'NEVER' is given, it will be announced in
        the capabilities list as the length of time a message may remain on
        the server before it expires and may be automatically deleted by the
        server. (The number is a whole number of days.)

        This does NOT actually delete anything; it just announces the
        timeframe to the client. Clients that do not support POP3 Extensions
        will not get this announcement. 'NEVER' means the server will never
        expire messages; 0 means that expiration is immanent and the client
        should not count on leaving messages on the server. 0 should be
        announced for example if the mere act of retrieving a message may
        cause it to expire shortly afterward.

        If the message expiration time may vary by user, expiretime should
        be a callback routine. If the callback is passed no arguments, it is
        being asked for the minimum expiration time for all users, which it
        should return (as a whole number of days; 0 is acceptable); if it is
        passed an argument, this will be a valid, authenticated username and
        the callback should return the expiration time for this particular
        user, either as a whole number of days or the string 'NEVER'.

        The default is not to announce an expiration time.

    DEBUG
        Set the level of debugging information desired on standard output.
        undef means no debug info at all. 0 means only warn when the client
        uses commands that are not understood. A value of 1 produces various
        other information about functions that are being called, arguments
        they are passed, and so on. A value of 2 also uses Data::Dumper to
        show the state of certain data structures at various times, possibly
        including entire messages, possibly more than once per message. This
        can get really verbose. A value of 3 is even more verbose and really
        doesn't add anything for debugging your code. (Level 3 is intended
        for debugging the module itself. Actually, all of it was mainly
        intended for that originally, but the lower levels also proved
        useful for debugging sample scripts.)

        The DEBUG level is optional. The default is 0.

    linetimeout
        Give the mail client (or user) this many seconds to type or send
        each line. My reading of RFC1939 is that this shouldn't be less than
        ten minutes (at least, between commands), but Net::Server::POP3 does
        not enforce this minimum.

        The linetimeout is optional. The default is currently 600 (ten
        minutes), the minimum specified by the RFC. The default value may
        change in a future version.

REQUIRES
    Net::Server, Exporter

BUGS
    DEBUG makes authentication fail
        This is really bad, and I hope to fix it very soon. My apologies to
        anyone who has been bitten by this. The gplproxy example has
        uncovered a bug wherein passing a nonzero value for DEBUG to new (or
        probably also startserver) causes authentication to fail. Fixing
        this will be top priority for the next release.

    APOP is not implemented yet.
    stopserver and restartserver are not implemented
        For now, the only way to stop the server is to kill it. Actually,
        this may not be true; I'm still investigating this stuff about the
        Net::Server module.

    UIDL
        The UIDL implementation uses the message-id as the unique id, rather
        than calculating a hash as suggested by RFC 1939. In practice, this
        seems to be what my ISP's mail server does (it calls itself
        InterMail), which has worked with every client I've thrown at it, so
        it should be mostly okay, but it's not strictly up to spec I think
        and may be changed in a later version. I intend to investigate what
        other major POP3 servers do in this regard before making any
        changes; if you happen to know e.g. what the POP3 servers do that
        are usually used with Postfix, Exim, or Qmail, et cetera, drop me a
        line and let me know. Data about what the POP3 servers used by
        various ISPs do would also be appreciated.

    threads
        The issue of thread safety has not even been considered, other than
        to include this warning that it has not been considered. If someone
        who actually has experience with threaded programming wants to look
        it over, that would be great; otherwise, I may try to get to it
        eventually, but for now it's several items down the Todo list.

    character handling
        My code all assumes that each character is stored in one byte. I
        suspect most mail servers do this, but if your code that uses the
        module produces any Unicode strings, this could make issues. The
        sample proxy modules are naively assuming that Mail::POP3Client
        returns strings with octet symantics; I do not know whether this is
        actually the case. At minimum, this could cause the sizes of the
        messages to be reported incorrectly (e.g. by LIST).

    client IP address
        The authenticate callback was not passed the client's IP address as
        documented, but I think this is fixed now.

    line endings
        I think the new default value for EOL fixes this bug, but I'm
        leaving the old information here until I confirm that:

        Depending on your platform and possibly your perl version, you might
        need to set the EOL to "\r\n" instead of the default "\n". However,
        if your perl version already handles this the way mine does (Linux
        Mandrake 9.2), setting it to "\r\n" will break it, resulting in the
        mail client only seeing the first header you send as a header and
        viewing the rest of the headers as part of the body, which is ugly;
        in that case you should use "\n". You can now pass an EOL parameter
        to new or to startserver for this, until I figure out how to fix it
        for real. The default is "\n" if you don't specify.

    Caveat user
        There may be other bugs as well; this is not release-quality code
        yet. Significant changes may be made to the code interface before
        release quality is reached, so if you use this module now you may
        have to change your code when you upgrade.

        The Todo list is long, and contributions are welcome, especially
        code but also documentation, sample scripts, or other information
        such as how the module works with various clients, what platforms
        and perl versions need which setting for EOL (and how to determine
        this at runtime), what POP3 servers do what for the UIDL, ...

SUPPORT
    Use the source, Luke. You can also contact the author with questions,
    but the code is supplied on an as-is basis with no warranty. I will try
    to answer any questions, but this is spare-time stuff for me.

AUTHOR
            Jonadab the Unsightly One (Nathan Eady)
            jonadab@bright.net
            http://www.bright.net/~jonadab/

COPYRIGHT
    This program is free software licensed under the terms of...

            The BSD License

    The full text of the license can be found in the LICENSE file included
    with this module.

    Note that the modules (such as Net::Server) that are used by this module
    or by the sample scripts are covered under their respective license
    agreements and are not governed by the license of Net::Server::POP3.

SEE ALSO
      perl(1)
      Net::Server http://search.cpan.org/search?query=Net::Server
      Mail::POP3Client http://search.cpan.org/search?query=Mail::POP3Client
      The simpletest.pl script included in the scripts directory in this distribution.
      The proxytest.pl script also included in the scripts directory in this distribution.

    Net::Server

    Mail::POP3Client

    simpletest.pl

    proxytest.pl

    gplproxy.pl

    For a more minimalist framework with a different interface, see
    Net::Server::POP3::Skeleton

