NAME
    CatalystX::Plugin::Blurb - (alpha software) handle transient messages
    and UI elements.

VERSION
    0.03

NOTICE
    This is not something I'd encourage you to use yet. I am releasing it to
    the CPAN so it can be available for building another package. This is
    half done. It was written well over a year ago and barely used or
    touched since. It might be a mistake. It might be abandoned. If you try
    it though, have fun.

SYNOPSIS
     use Catalyst qw(
                     Unicode
                     Session
                     +CatalystX::Plugin::Blurb
                     );

DESCRIPTION
    blurb
    flash_blurb
        Blurbs are normally only kept for a single response. If you set
        "flash_blurb" to true the blurbs will be kept for the next request
        via flash.

    * finalize
        Puts the blurbs into flash for the next request if "flash_blurb" has
        been set.

CONFIGURATION AND ENVIRONMENT
BUGS AND LIMITATIONS
    No bugs have been reported.

    Please report any bugs or feature requests to
    "bug-catalyst-plugin-blurb@rt.cpan.org", or through the web interface at
    <http://rt.cpan.org>.

TODO
    Flash blurb interface is wrong. They should be just like blurbs, not a
    switch. They should also have an expiration baked in.

AUTHOR
    Ashley Pond V "<ashley@cpan.org>".

LICENCE AND COPYRIGHT
    Copyright (c) 2009, Ashley Pond V.

    This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
    under the same terms as Perl itself. See perlartistic.

DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY
    Because this software is licensed free of charge, there is no warranty
    for the software, to the extent permitted by applicable law. Except when
    otherwise stated in writing the copyright holders and/or other parties
    provide the software "as is" without warranty of any kind, either
    expressed or implied, including, but not limited to, the implied
    warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose. The
    entire risk as to the quality and performance of the software is with
    you. Should the software prove defective, you assume the cost of all
    necessary servicing, repair, or correction.

    In no event unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing
    will any copyright holder, or any other party who may modify and/or
    redistribute the software as permitted by the above licence, be liable
    to you for damages, including any general, special, incidental, or
    consequential damages arising out of the use or inability to use the
    software (including but not limited to loss of data or data being
    rendered inaccurate or losses sustained by you or third parties or a
    failure of the software to operate with any other software), even if
    such holder or other party has been advised of the possibility of such
    damages.

