NAME
    MMS::Mail::Message - A class representing an MMS (or picture) message
    sent via email.

VERSION
    Version 0.06

SYNOPSIS
    This class is used by MMS::Mail::Parser to provide an itermediate data
    storage class after the MMS has been parsed by the "parse" method but
    before it has been through the second stage of parsing (the
    MMS::Mail::Parser "provider_parse" method). If this doesn't make sense
    then take a look at MMS::Mail::Parser to get an idea where this module
    fits in before progressing any further.

METHODS
    The following are the top-level methods of the MMS::Mail::Message class.

  Constructor
    "new()"
        Return a new MMS::Mail::Message object. Valid attributes are any
        public accessor outlined in the Regular Methods section below.

  Regular Methods
    "header_datetime" STRING
        Instance method - Returns the time and date the MMS was received
        when invoked with no supplied parameter. When supplied with a
        parameter it sets the object property to the supplied parameter.

    "header_from" STRING
        Instance method - Returns the sending email address the MMS was sent
        from when invoked with no supplied parameter. When supplied with a
        parameter it sets the object property to the supplied parameter.

    "header_to" STRING
        Instance method - Returns the recieving email address the MMS was
        sent to when invoked with no supplied parameter. When supplied with
        a parameter it sets the object property to the supplied parameter.

    "header_subject" STRING
        Instance method - Returns the MMS subject when invoked with no
        supplied parameter. When supplied with a parameter it sets the
        object property to the supplied parameter.

    "header_received_from" STRING
        Instance method - Returns the email server that (last) sent the mms
        when invoked with no supplied parameter. When supplied with a
        parameter it sets the object property to the supplied parameter.

    "body_text" STRING
        Instance method - Returns the MMS bodytext when invoked with no
        supplied parameter. When supplied with a paramater it sets the
        object property to the supplied parameter.

    "strip_characters" STRING
        Instance method - The supplied string should be a set of characters
        valid for use in a regular expression character class "s/[]//g".
        When set with a value the property is used by the "header_from",
        "header_to", "header_datetime", "body_text" and "header_subject"
        methods to remove these characters from their respective properties
        (in both the "MMS::Mail::Message" and "MMS::Mail::Message::Parsed"
        classes).

    "cleanse_map" HASHREF
        Instance method - This method allows a regular expression or
        subroutine reference to be applied when an accessor sets a value,
        allowing message values to be cleansed or modified. These accessors
        are "header_from", "header_to", "body_text", "header_datetime" and
        "header_subject".

        The method expects a hash reference with key values as one of the
        above public accessor method names and values as a scalar in the
        form of a regular expression or as a subroutine reference.

    "attachments" ARRAYREF
        Instance method - Returns an array reference to the array of MMS
        message attachments. When supplied with a parameter it sets the
        object property to the supplied parameter.

    "add_attachment" MIME::Entity
        Instance method - Adds the supplied "MIME::Entity" attachment to the
        attachment stack for the message. This method is mainly used by the
        "MMS::Mail::Parser" class to add attachments while parsing.

    "is_valid"
        Instance method - Returns true or false depending if the
        "header_datetime", "header_from" and "header_to" fields are all
        populated or not.

    "set"
        Instance method - Overides the Class::Accessor superclass set method
        to apply cleanse_map and strip_character functionality to accessors.

AUTHOR
    Rob Lee, "<robl at robl.co.uk>"

BUGS
    Please report any bugs or feature requests to
    "bug-mms-mail-message@rt.cpan.org", or through the web interface at
    <http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/ReportBug.html?Queue=MMS-Mail-Message>. I
    will be notified, and then you'll automatically be notified of progress
    on your bug as I make changes.

NOTES
    Please read the Perl artistic license ('perldoc perlartistic') :

    10. THIS PACKAGE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
    WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
    MERCHANTIBILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
    As per usual this module is sprinkled with a little Deb magic.

COPYRIGHT & LICENSE
    Copyright 2005 Rob Lee, all rights reserved.

    This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
    under the same terms as Perl itself.

SEE ALSO
    MMS::Mail::Message, MMS::Mail::Message::Parsed, MMS::Mail::Provider

