README FILE FOR MODULES SQL::Statement and SQL::Parser

These modules can be used stand-alone to parse SQL statements 
or used with DBI and DBD::CSV, DBD::AnyData or other drivers to
create, modify, and query data in many kinds of formats including
XML, CSV, Fixed Length, Excel Spreadsheets and many others.

WHO NEEDS IT?

If you use the DBI drivers for flatfiles, Excel spreadsheets, or
formats such as XML via the CSV, AnyData, or Excel DBDs, this
distribution will greatly expand the range of supported SQL, as
well as provide support for text-like numbers and alphabetic
comparisons previously missing in those drivers.  Some of the
features included in this release are partial support for
multi-table joins, for set and string functions, for numeric
expressions, for the IN and BETWEEN predicates and much more.

HOW DO I INSTALL IT?

If you are familiar with the standard make/nmake procedures,
simply do as always:

   perl Makefile.PL
   make
   make test
   make install

You may also use nmake or dmake on windows.  Since the modules
are pure perl, you may also simply copy the enclosed SQL
directory into your lib directory (either your main site/lib or
a private area).

WHAT ELSE DO I NEED?

  to parse SQL statements:

     perl

  to create, query, & modify databases

     perl
     DBI
     DBD::CSV or DBD::AnyData or other DBDs that subclass SQL::Statement

        
WHERE DO I FIND OUT MORE?

If you are using it via one of the DBD drivers, see the help
documentation for that driver.  If you are subclassing the
moduels, there are extensive help documents included with the
modules.  Use perldoc or pod2html or simply read the POD section
of the .pm files.  For further questions, write to the
the dbi-users@perl.org listserv or try www.perlmonks.org.

WHO DUNNIT?

The original XS versions of the modules were written by Jochen
Wiedmann.  The current, pure perl versions were rewritten
(mostly from the ground up) by Jeff Zucker 
<jzuckerATcpan.org>.  Both versions are currently maintained
by Jens Rehsack <rehsack@cpan.org>.
