Mail::Audit::Centipaid Troubleshooting FAQ
Adonis El Fakih


1) What do I need to do to get my Mail::Audit script installed and
reading mail?

This depends a little on your MTA - that's the software that delivers
the mail on your server. If you're using exim or sendmail, you should
be able to just pop

    |~/myfilter.pl

into a file called ".forward" in your home directory. (Assuming your
filter is called "myfilter.pl", placed in your home directory, starts
"#!/usr/bin/perl" or wherever Perl is, and is executable.)

For qmail, the magic words

    preline ~/myfilter.pl

in a file called ".qmail" will do the trick.

On Redhat with sendmail, the following steps needed to be done, to 
enable .forward piping.

a) copy the mail filter to /etc/smrsh.  Included with this module
   are two filters.  sfilter.pl which uses Mail::Audit only to
   check that mail->accept does indeed deliver to your mailbox.
   And centifilter.pl which uses Mail::Audit::Centipaid with an
   active Centipaid account that enables you to test the module.

b) After copying the programs into /etc/smrsh, ensure that the
   read-write permissions on the .forward are to the account owner
   only. 

   chmod 600 .forward

   Most applications will give you a cryptic error if these steps
   are not done. 


2) Sendmail is bouncing mail when I put the above in my .forward

Makre sure you did what is detailed above.  This is usually due to 
something called the Sendmail Restricted Shell (smrsh), which 
restricts the types of program that can execute in a
.forward file. See the Procmail FAQ for more details.
(http://www.sektorn.mooo.com/era/procmail/mini-faq.html)

If you just want to hack it, install procmail, and arrange for procmail
to pipe to your program.

You can also refer to centipaid and visit the Knowledgebase and support
forum for solutions to problems faced by others while installing
Mail::Audit::Centipaid


3) I'm using fetchmail.

Don't do that, it's slow. Use popread instead which comes with 
Mail::Audit. Doesn't work for IMAP yet, though.

4) It still doesn't work.

First, see if you can get procmail working instead. If procmail won't
work, it's not a Mail::Audit/Mail::Audit::Centipaid problem. If procmail 
works, try a very, very simple Mail::Audit script. Something just like
    
    use Mail::Audit;
    Mail::Audit->new->accept; 
    
A copy of this script in included in the "examples" directory of this
distribution.

If that works, does your script compile? What happens if you run it
under "perl -c"? 

Turn on debugging by setting "Debug => 1" in the configuration hash
%conf, and see if you see what the problem is.  Mail::Audit::Centipaid 
script even being called? Is the mail bouncing? Does the bounce tell 
you anything useful?

5) It STILL doesn't work.

OK. Time to tell us. Please go to http://www.centipaid.com/ and visit the
Support forum, and submit your question and your Mail::Audit::Centipaid 
script, the answers to the questions above, the bounce if there is one, and
information about what MTA you are using.  We will try to figure out what's
going on.
