This is an alpha release of the Net::Bind module package for perl5.

This module provides an interface to various files related to the bind
DNS daemon.  For this alpha release, there is only an interface for
/etc/resolv.conf data - I wanted to provide a feel for the type of
interface being developed.  Future releases will include interfaces
for named.boot files, zone files, database dump files, and the new
named.conf file (ala bind-8.x).  I expect to provide these other
interfaces before it goes to beta release.  If you are interested in
the future capabilities of this module, please take a look at what's
here and provide feedback.

WARNING! WARNING! WARNING! WARNING! WARNING! WARNING! WARNING! WARNING!
Think twice about using this module to modify important data.  At the
very least make sure you have backup copies.

WARNING! WARNING! WARNING! WARNING! WARNING! WARNING! WARNING! WARNING!
The method interface is currently in an evaluation phase.  Since the
module is at an early stage of it's life, I'm not going to try too
hard to provide for backward compatibility to older alpha versions.  I
am, however, going to try to make all changes to the method interfaces
before it reaches beta release.

The following interfaces is provided with Net::Bind:
    + Net::Bind::Resolv

The following interfaces should be available before it goes to beta:
    + Net::Bind::Boot	(named.boot)
    + Net::Bind::Zone	(zone files)
    + Net::Bind::Dump	(dump files generated from SIGINT of named)
    + Net::Bind::Conf	(new bind-8 configuration file)
(roughly in that order)

To build and install the package execute the following commands:
    perl Makefile.PL
    make
    make test
    make install

I've tried to provide a strong set of regression tests.  I understand
how important it is to have correctly generating DNS data.  If you
look through the regression tests and notice anything missing or
incorrect, please let me know.

The TODO file has information on features that aren't present or
complete yet.

The CHANGES file has summary information on changes from release to
release.

The BUGS file has information on current implementation
bugs/malfeatures.

The current version has been developed and tested against 5.003_24.

Check the documentation for the module for information on using the
package.  Please let me know if run across something that needs to be
documented better.

Please contact me if you use this for anything non-trivial.  This is
not for permission, it's so I can get some idea of what folks are
using the package for other than trivial scripts.

Copyright (c) 1997 Kevin Johnson <kjj@pobox.com>
Copyright (c) 2001 Rob Brown <rob@roobik.com>.

All rights reserved. This program is free software; you can
redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

-------------

Please report any bugs/suggestions to <rob@roobik.com>.
