This directory contains encoding maps for some selected encodings.

These maps were generated by a perl script, make_encmap, from mapping
information available from the Internet at
ftp://ftp.unicode.org/Public/MAPPINGS.

If you edit the generated XML file to add the "expat='yes'" to the
encmap start tag, then you can use the compile_encoding script to check
whether the map meets expat requirements (and also create the corresponding
binary encmap file.)

The file encmap.dtd is the document type declaration for these files
and contains information about the semantics. This should give you
sufficient information to build your own encoding map. I can't vouch
for the validity of the DTD, since I haven't processed it. It is provided
for informational purposes only.

As mentioned in the DTD, there are some restrictions on what kinds of
encodings can be loaded due to restrictions that the expat library places
on us for efficiency reasons.

One of those restrictions is that the encoding must represent the ASCII
set of characters with a single byte and that byte must be equal to the
equivalent Unicode scalar value with the exception of a few punctuation
characters.

This distribution contains four contributed encodings from MURATA Makoto
<murata@apsdc.ksp.fujixerox.co.jp> that are variations on the encoding
commonly called Shift_JIS:

x-sjis-cp932.xml
x-sjis-jdk117.xml
x-sjis-jisx0221.xml
x-sjis-unicode.xml	(This is the same encoding as the shift_jis.xml that
			 was distributed with this module in version 1.00)

Please read his message (Japanese_Encodings.msg) about why these are here
and why I've removed the shift_jis.xml encoding.

We also have two contributed encodings that are variations of the EUC-JP
encoding from Yoshida Masato <yoshidam@inse.co.jp>:

x-euc-jp-jisx0221.xml
x-euc-jp-unicode.xml


The comments that MURATA Makoto made in his message apply to these
encodings too.

I've taken the liberty of breaking out common sections for these two as
external entities. So the fault of the uninformative names of these
four external entites is mine.

Clark Cooper
December 26, 1998


