Env-AsYaml

Env-AsYaml is intended to be a tool for examination of the environment in which
the user is running programs, starting processes or seeking a solution to odd
problems.

The current process always has "environmental variables" set. This program
facilitates printing them out as YAML. Lists of paths, like the common
across-platforms env variable PATH, will become YAML sequences, much easier to
read. This will be useful for troubleshooting, writing scripts for the shell
environment, and probably for other things which I haven't thought of yet.

To explain further: not infrequently, unexpected or undesirable program
behavior can be traced to settings in the environment. These settings are
present as "environment variables" and can consist of simple strings (scalars)
or lists (typically, lists of paths). The Env.pm module understands lists like
these and, using this ability, Env-AsYaml presents them to the user as very
readable lists. The author works on a Microsoft Windows OS with the Cygwin
environment (not exclusively though, because he also uses Gnu/Linux) and
through no intentional doing of his own, has seen his PATH env variable balloon
to as many as 26 items (including some duplicates)! This module was written to
help address such problems.

This readme was written to document version 0.30 (first release) of Env::AsYaml.


INSTALLATION

To install this module, run the following commands:

	perl Makefile.PL
	make
	make test
	make install

Alternatively, to install with Module::Build, you can use the following commands:

	perl Build.PL
	./Build
	./Build test
	./Build install

SUPPORT AND DOCUMENTATION

After installing, you can find documentation for this module with the
perldoc command.

    perldoc Env::AsYaml

You can also look for information at:

    RT, CPAN's request tracker (report bugs here)
        https://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/Bugs.html?Dist=Env-AsYaml

    CPAN Ratings
        https://cpanratings.perl.org/d/Env-AsYaml

    Search CPAN
        https://metacpan.org/release/Env-AsYaml


LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

This software is Copyright (c) 2025 by Sören Andersen.

This is free software, licensed under:

  The Artistic License 2.0 (GPL Compatible)

