NAME

    Task::FFIDev - Task bundle for FFI development

VERSION

    version 0.01

SYNOPSIS

     $ cpanm Task::FFIDev

DESCRIPTION

    This Task bundle is useful for those doing FFI development with
    FFI::Platypus. Installing it will give you these modules:

    Dist::Zilla::MintingProfile::FFI

      Dist::Zilla minting profile for creating FFI::Platypus bindings.

    Dist::Zilla::Plugin::FFI

      Dist::Zilla plugins useful for FFI

    FFI::C

      Create interfaces to C structured data.

    FFI::CheckLib

      Find dynamic libraries for use with FFI

    FFI::Platypus

      Library for writing your own FFI bindings in perl

    FFI::Platypus::Type::Enum

      Platypus type plugin for enumerated types

    FFI::Platypus::Type::PtrObject

      Platypus type plugin for opaque pointer objects

    PeekPoke::FFI

      Library for peeking and poking arbitrary memory locations.

    Test2::Tools::FFI

      Testing tools for FFI.

    The latest versions as of when this Task was released should be
    installed at minimum, if they are not already installed.

    Other prereqs may be added in the future if they are deemed useful for
    FFI development.

CAVEATS

    This module does require Perl 5.20 or better currently, because at
    least some of its prereqs require that version. Note that FFI bindings
    authored with these tools should work on Perls of at least 5.8.4 or
    better, so this is just a development requirement.

    This Task indirectly requires Alien::FFI. If you do not want to build
    that from source or do not have internet access where the build is
    happening, you will want to pre-install libffi. On Debian based systems
    you can do that with sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install
    libffi-dev.

AUTHOR

    Graham Ollis <plicease@cpan.org>

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

    This software is copyright (c) 2021 by Graham Ollis.

    This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
    the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

