NAME
    App::CPRReporter - Application to merge various datasets info an
    overview of who followed CPR training (cardiopulmonary resuscitation,
    the use of rescue breathing and chest compressions to help a person
    whose breathing and heartbeat have stopped)

VERSION
    version 0.03

SYNOPSIS
    my $object = App::CPRReporter->new(parameter => 'text.txt');

DESCRIPTION
    This application parses various datasets and fuses the information to
    generate an overview of who followed the theoretical part and the
    practical part of a course on CPR (cardiopulmonary resuscitation, the
    use of rescue breathing and chest compressions to help a person whose
    breathing and heartbeat have stopped).

    More specifically, this application was written to take into account the
    following information:

    An Excel document of the employee database, containing familyname
    (column C), given name (column D) and group (column A)
    An XML document extracted from the training station software (see
    Text::ResusciAnneparser)
    An Ecxel document of the people who followed training, containing
    familyname (column B), given name (column D) and course date (column H)

    This application solves two problems, firstly it automates the task of
    generating an overview of what people in what group already followed
    training and who not. Secondly, the application also automates name
    resolving. The two Excel documents are generated by the personel
    department and hence should have to correct names. However, the XML
    document is filled with user-typed input. Hence the name matching
    between all datasets needs do be done taking into account typos, inverse
    input, shortened names, ...

METHODS
  "new(%parameters)"
    This constructor returns a new App::CPRReporter object. Supported
    parameters are listed below

    employees
        The filename of the Excel document (Office 2007 format) with a full
        list of people that should follow the course.

    certificates
        The filename of the XML document extracted from the training
        software.

    course
        The filename of the Excel document (Office 2007 format) with an
        overview of people that followed the theoretical trainging.

  "run()"
    Run the application and print out the result.

  BUILD
    Helper function to run custome code after the object has been created by
    Moose.

TODO
    Currently, the application prints output to STDOUT in a CSV format.
    Future versions could write to Excel immediately.

AUTHOR
    Lieven Hollevoet <hollie@cpan.org>

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
    This software is copyright (c) 2013 by Lieven Hollevoet.

    This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
    the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

