Authen::Krb5Password

NAME
     Authen::Krb5Password - Perl extension for Kerberos 5
     password verification

SYNOPSIS
       use Authen::Krb5Password;
       $success = kpass("username", "password", "service", "host", "FILE:/path/t
o/keytab");

DESCRIPTION
     This module provides a Perl function to perform password
     verification using Kerberos 5. It is intended for use by
     applications that cannot use the Kerberos protocol directly.
     If it must be run on a system that receives a username and
     password over the network, steps should be taken to ensure
     that these are passed to the server in a cryptographically
     secure manner.

     kpass() attempts to validate a given users Kerberos username and
     password. It does this in the following manner: it first obtains a 
     Kerberos ticket for the specified service for the given username and 
     password from the Kerberos AS. And then attempts to decrypt the ticket 
     using the key stored in the specified keytable file to verify the 
     authenticity of the AS response. An empty string can be passed 
     as the 4th (host) argument to use the fully canonicalized primary 
     hostname of the system that the function is executed on. The fifth 
     argument can also be an empty string to use the system's default 
     keytab file (usually "FILE:/etc/krb5.keytab").

     Note that previous versions of this module obtained a TGT from the
     AS and then subsequently used that to obtain the service ticket from
     the TGS. Directly obtaining the service ticket from the AS saves a
     round trip with the KDC and the associated cryptographic computations.

     kpass() returns -1 if an error occurs, 0 if the username or
     password is incorrect, or 1 if password verification is
     successful. Errors and authentication failures are recorded
     via syslog(3). Because of deficiencies in Perl's syslog
     implementation in Sys::Syslog(3), there's no clean way to
     log output to any facility other than the default LOG_USER.
     One possible way around this problem is to use the
     Unix::Syslog module available on CPAN, which correctly uses
     your platform's native syslog library routines to perform
     the functions.

Prerequisites:

	- perl 5
	- MIT Kerberos V5 Release 1.3.x or better (this module
	  also appears to work with Heimdal Kerberos, although
	  I have not extensively tested it)
	- Creation of an application service principal on the Kerberos
	  server in order to verify the KDC's response. And access to
	  a local keytab file containing the key for that principal.

To build and install:

1. Edit "Makefile.PL" to reflect the proper locations of the MIT 
   Kerberos 5 libraries and include directories for your system.

   Note: if you're using Heimdal, uncomment the line:
            'DEFINE'   => '',

2. perl Makefile.PL
3. make
4. make test
5. (as root) make install
6. make distclean

Note that it may be necessary to create a keytab file specifically 
for use with this module since the default system keytab file is 
usually readable only by root.

Shumon Huque
E-mail: <shuque -at- isc.upenn.edu>
University of Pennsylvania.

Copyright (c) 2005, 2006, 2007 Shumon Huque. All rights reserved.  
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify 
it under the same terms as Perl itself.
