Net-OpenSRS

DESCRIPTION

This is a wrapper interface to the DNS portions of the Tucows OpenSRS
HTTPS XML API.

    The client library distributed by OpenSRS can be difficult to
    integrate into a custom environment, and their web interface becomes
    quickly tedious with heavy usage. This is a clean and relatively
    quick library to perform the most common API methods described in the
    OpenSRS API documentation.

    For example -- after initial setup, registering a domain can be 
    completed in one function call.  This makes Net::OpenSRS suitable
    for easy SRS integration into your own environment.


NOTES

    This module requires some setup in the OpenSRS reseller environment
    before it will work correctly.

    - You need to have an OpenSRS account, of course.  If you aren't an
      OpenSRS reseller, this module will be of limited use to you. :)

    - The machine(s) using this module need to have their public IP 
      addresses added to your 'Script API allow' list in the OpenSRS
      web interface.  (You only need to do this once.)

    - You need to generate your API keys - also in the the OpenSRS
      web interface.  (These keys are used for reseller authentication.)

    - For further information, please refer to the pod documentation.


INSTALLATION

To install this module, run the following commands:

    perl Makefile.PL
    make
    make test
    make install


SUPPORT AND DOCUMENTATION

After installing, you can find documentation for this module with the perldoc command.

    perldoc Net::OpenSRS

You can also look for information at:

    Search CPAN
        http://search.cpan.org/dist/Net-OpenSRS

    CPAN Request Tracker:
        http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/Bugs.html?Dist=Net-OpenSRS

    AnnoCPAN, annotated CPAN documentation:
        http://annocpan.org/dist/Net-OpenSRS

    CPAN Ratings:
        http://cpanratings.perl.org/d/Net-OpenSRS

COPYRIGHT AND LICENCE

Copyright (C) 2006 Mahlon E. Smith

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
