
DBIx::Recordset - Perl extension for DBI recordsets

Copyright (c) 1997-2001 Gerald Richter / ECOS

You may distribute under the terms of either the GNU General Public 
License or the Artistic License, as specified in the Perl README file.

THIS PACKAGE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED 
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF 
MERCHANTIBILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.


OVERVIEW

DBIx::Recordset is a perl module for abstraction and simplification of
database access.

The goal is to make standard database access (select/insert/update/delete)
easier to handle and independend of the underlying DBMS. Special attention is
made on web applications to make it possible to handle the state-less access
and to process the posted data of formfields, but DBIx::Recordset is not
limited to web applications.


The main features of DBIx::Recordset are:

- it has a compact interface, normaly only one function call is necessary
  for setup and data retrival/inseration/deletion

- it takes care about type conversion and quoting

- it is able to access/modify tables via arrays and hashs

- it can automaticly create sub-objects for tables which are logical linked
  together

- it can automatily create joins based on logical links

- it has input/output filters on a per field/per type basis

- it can create WHERE expression from a hash, which is especially usefull in
  a cgi environement, where you can simply pass all paramters posted to your cgi
  script to DBIx::Recordset and DBIx::Recordset creates an corresponding SELECT.

- it can create previous/next buttons for html output

- it works together with HTML::Embperl for easily genration of HTML output

- it has an own database abtraction class DBIx::Compat which gives all the
  necessary information, so that DBIx::Recordset is able to work with
  different database systems

- The new class DBIx::Database is able to retrieve and store meta infomation
  of the database in a centralised location, which can be used for later
  setup. This is also usefull when running under mod_perl, because you can do
  all the setup and configuration work at webserver startup time, speeding up
  your scripts when a actual request is processed.


DBIx::Recordset use the DBI API to access the database, so it should work with
every database for which a DBD driver is available (see also DBIx::Compat)


For more information look at perldoc DBIx::Recordset.
An introduction to DBIx::Recordset can be view with perldoc Intrors.pod.
The introduction can also be viewed online at 

  http://perl.apache.org/embperl/Intrors.pod.cont.html



INSTALLATION

As usual start with

perl Makefile.PL

The makefile tries to detecd your installed DBD drivers and asks you
for a database for performing the tests. The database must exist before
the make test can run!

Now you are ready todo a

make

and

make test

if make test runs ok, do a make install and you are ready. If not you should
check if a entry for your DBD driver exists in the file Compat.pm.
If not create one. For more information how todo this look at

perldoc Compat

Currently there are entries for
- DBD::mSQL
- DBD::mysql
- DBD::Pg
- DBD::Solid
- DBD::ODBC
- DBD::Oracle (requires DBD::Oracle 0.60 or higher)
- DBD::Sybase 
- DBD::CSV
- DBD::Informix 
- DBD::InterBase

If you create your own entry please send it to me, so I can include it
in the next release.

After changing the Compat.pm rerun make test to make sure it works!

If you don't get make test to work for you, please send me the file
test.log (Normaly it should be enought to send the part for the test,
that fails) along with the versions of DBI and the DBD driver you are using.


EXAMPLES

The perldoc DBIx::Recordset contains a lot of examples for function calls.
The directory eg/ contains examples for HTML::Embperl and CGI.pm
Also you can look at test.pl, which should use most aspects of DBIx::Recordset



SUPPORT

As far as possible for me, support will be available directly from me or via the
DBI Users mailinglist.
