Here are all of the important installation files used in the Scottish
Climbing Archive install of link controller.  They serve as a real
example of how to use link-controller to keep links on your pages
under control.

We run a relatively small installation on a multi-user system based on
RedHat 6.2.  We have to build our own version of perl and install that
along with all of the cdb programs in our own `bin' directory.  This
means that we have to be careful with paths when running programs.

crontab - our crontab which runs testing hourly and the rest of the
	programs daily.

dot-link-control.pl - our .link-control.pl file.

	- all of our files are hardcoded into the /home/sca/linkdata
	  directory

	- we run the cgi programs in various experimental ways

	- we have one infostructure which we check 

		- we don't want to know about links inside the 
		  leitheatre section since we only lend space to
		  them for occasional internal use.

		- we don't give the system any special privilages
		  so we tell it to avoid password protected areas

		- we keep some pages of oldstuff where we 
		  deliberately leave links to places which don't
		  exist any more

infostrucs - a very simple infostrucs file which just points to the
	infostructure in our .link-control.pl file.

logrotate - I keep complete logs of the verbose output of all of the
	programs from the cron jobs.  Using logrotate allows me to 
	make sure that the logs are deleted correctly.  

		- compress the files so they take less space

		- use delaycompress since test-link may be running
		  when we do logrotate, but there's no reason to 
		  kill it.

		- 10 days logs normally has enough information to
		  track most interesting cases

mail-link-report - the only file that's been edited (I changed the mail addresses
	to avoid any junkmail..)
	- every day we get a message about any newly broken links

run-extract-links - our cron doesn't set paths so we do it in this script

run-test-links  -  set paths + control the run time

we don't have a very huge set of links so our test-links program runs
for a maximum of a few minutes an hour.
