Date::Convert::French_Rev - Jean Forget <JFORGET@cpan.org>

Date conversion using the French Revolutionary calendar.

PRESENTATION

This   module  is   a  add-on   to  Mordechai   Abzug's  Date::Convert
module.  Since  his  module  is  pre-alpha,  mine  is,  too.   Another
consequence is that  this module allows you to convert  from or to any
calendar implemented in  Date::Convert.  These calendars are currently
Gregorian, Julian,  Hebrew and absolute  (which is Julian  Day Number,
with midnight-to-midnight days instead of noon-to-noon).

This module allows you to pretty-print French Revolutionary dates.

You can use this module even if you do not have Perl on your computer.
See the alternate install procedure below.

WHY A NEW VERSION AFTER TEN YEARS?

I released the supposedly last version  of this module (0.05) the same
day I  released DateTime::Calendar::FrenchRevolutionary  version 0.01.
It was intended to be  the final version of Date::Convert::French_Rev.
So why did I release version 0.06 ten years later?

Between  2003 and  2013, the  world has  moved on  and CPAN  has moved
on.  In  2003, UTF-8  was  a promising  technic,  but  not yet  widely
used. In  2013, UTF-8 *is*  widely used. In  2003, there was a  set of
CPAN  best  practices:  test   scripts  in  t/*.t  for  example.  Some
recommended practices appeared later: META.yml for example. And CPANTS
was  created  to  provide   a  static  code  analysis  checking  these
recommended practices. So  this new version is also  meant to catch up
with these  recommended practices. In  other words, I play  the CPANTS
game and I try to improve my rating by updating this module.

PREREQUISITES

Roman, by Alexandr Ciornii (CHORNY)
Date::Convert, by Mordechai Abzug (MORTY)

Optionally
Test::Exception, by Adrian Howard (ADIE)
Test::Warnings, by Karen Etheridge (ETHER)

INSTALL

First  intall  Roman.pm and  Date::Convert.pm,  and  then install  the
normal way:

perl Makefile.PL
make
make test
make install

Note: if "make  test" give you a "dubious"  result, one possibility is
that you  have forgotten to install  Roman.pm. I know,  it happened to
me!

Or use you favorite CPAN client: CPAN.pm, cpanp, cpanm, dzil, whatever.

ALTERNATE INSTALL

This module can be installed on a perl-less computer!

All you need, on this computer, is:
  - tar and gzip, or compatible software
  - a table-aware HTML browser (no Internet connection required if you
  downloaded the archive from a local network or a CD-ROM)
  - a printer.

The installation steps are:

- Gunzip and untar the archive.
- Go to the eg/result subdirectory.
- Open the various files ending in "en.html" (or, if you are a
French-speaker, ending in "fr.html") with the HTML browser.
- Print them.
That's all!


Copyright  (c) 2001-2003,  2013, 2015,  2020 Jean  Forget. All  rights
reserved. This program  is free software. You  can distribute, modify,
and otherwise mangle Date::Convert::French_Rev under the same terms as
perl.
