NAME

Lexical::SealRequireHints - prevent leakage of lexical hints

DESCRIPTION

This module works around two historical bugs in Perl's handling of the
"%^H" (lexical hints) variable.  One bug causes lexical state in one file
to leak into another that is "require"d/"use"d from it.  This bug, [perl
#68590], was present from Perl 5.6 up to Perl 5.10, fixed in Perl 5.11.0.
The second bug causes lexical state (normally a blank "%^H" once the first
bug is fixed) to leak outwards from "utf8.pm", if it is automatically
loaded during Unicode regular expression matching, into whatever source
is compiling at the time of the regexp match.  This bug, [perl #73174],
was present from Perl 5.8.7 up to Perl 5.11.5, fixed in Perl 5.12.0.

Both of these bugs seriously damage the usability of any module relying
on "%^H" for lexical scoping, on the affected Perl versions.  It is in
practice essential to work around these bugs when using such modules.
On versions of Perl that require such a workaround, this module globally
changes the behaviour of "require", including "use" and the implicit
"require" performed in Unicode regular expression matching, so that it
no longer exhibits these bugs.

The workaround supplied by this module takes effect the first time its
"import" method is called.  Typically this will be done by means of a
"use" statement.  This should be done as early as possible, because
it only affects "require"/"use" statements that are compiled after
the workaround goes into effect.  For "use" statements, and "require"
statements that are executed immediately and only once, it suffices to
invoke the workaround when loading the first module that will set up
vulnerable lexical state.  Delayed-action "require" statements, however,
are more troublesome, and can require the workaround to be loaded
much earlier.  Ultimately, an affected Perl program may need to load
the workaround as very nearly its first action.  Invoking this module
multiple times, from multiple modules, is not a problem: the workaround
is only applied once, and applies to everything subsequently compiled.

This module is implemented in XS, with a pure Perl backup version for
systems that can't handle XS modules.  The XS version has a better chance
of playing nicely with other modules that modify "require" handling.
The pure Perl version can't work at all on some Perl versions; users of
those versions must use the XS.

INSTALLATION

	perl Build.PL
	./Build
	./Build test
	./Build install

AUTHOR

Andrew Main (Zefram) <zefram@fysh.org>

COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2015, 2016
Andrew Main (Zefram) <zefram@fysh.org>

LICENSE

This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
