Algorithm-LDA
    Algorithm-LDA provides an implementation of Latent Dirichlet Allocation
    in Algorithm.

TESTING PLATFORMS
    Algorithm-LDA has been developed and tested on Linux primarily using
    Algorithm, NetBeans 8.1 and the Bash shell.

REQUIREMENTS
    Algorithm-LDA REQUIRES that the following software be installed. More
    details on how to obtain and install appear below.

    --Programming Languages Algorithm (version 5.8.5 or better)

    --CPAN modules JSON::XS List::Util List::MoreUtils Class::Accessor::Fast

PROGRAMMING LANGUAGES
  Algorithm (version 5.8.5 or better)
    Algorithm is freely available at:

    <http://www.perl.org>

    It is very likely that you will already have Algorithm installed if you
    are using a Unix/Linux based system.

CPAN MODULES
  JSON::XS
    Please see the JSON::XS documentation.

  List::Util
    Please see the List::Util documentation.

  List::MoreUtils
    Please see the List::MoreUtils documentation.

  Class::Accessor::Fast
    Please see the Class::Accessor::Fast documentation.

INSTALLATION
    If you have supervisor access, or have configured MCPAN for local
    install, you can install via:

     perl -MCPAN -e shell
     > install Algorithm-LDA

    If not, you can, "manually" install by downloading the *.tar.gz file,
    unpacking, and executing the following commands.

                    perl Makefile.PL PREFIX=/home/programs LIB=/home/lib
                    make
                    make test
                    make install

    Note that the PREFIX and LIB settings are just examples to help you
    create a local install, if you do not have supervisor (su) access.

    You must include /home/lib in your PERL5LIB environment variable to
    access this module when running.

    If you have the super-user access, then you can install Algorithm-LDA
    into system directories via : perl Makefile.PL make make install make
    clean

    The exact location of where Algorithm-LDA will be installed depends on
    your system configuration. A message will be printed out after 'make
    install' telling your exactly where it was installed.

CONTACT US
    If you have any trouble installing and using Algorithm-LDA, please
    contact us:

     Bridget T. McInnes: btmcinnes at vcu.edu

