Config-Versioned

Config::Versioned allows an application to access configuration parameters
not only by parameter name, but also by version number. This allows for
the configuration subsystem to store previous versions of the configuration
parameters. When requesting the value for a specific attribute, the programmer
specifies whether to fetch the most recent value or a previous value.

This is useful for long-running tasks such as in a workflow-based application
where task-specific values (e.g.: profiles) are static over the life of a
workflow, while global values (e.g.: name of an LDAP server to be queried)
should always be the most recent.

Config::Versioned handles the versions by storing the configuration data
in an internal Git repository. Each import of configuration files into
the repository is documented with a commit. When a value is fetched, it is
this commit that is referenced directly when specifying the version.

The access to the individual attributes is via a named-parameter scheme, where 
the key is a dot-separated string.

Currently, Config::Std is used for the import of the data files into the 
internal Git repository. Support for other configuration modules (e.g.:
Config::Any) is planned.

INSTALLATION

To install this module, run the following commands:

	perl Makefile.PL
	make
	make test
	make install

SUPPORT AND DOCUMENTATION

After installing, you can find documentation for this module with the
perldoc command.

    perldoc Config::Versioned

You can also look for information at:

    RT, CPAN's request tracker
        http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/Bugs.html?Dist=Config-Versioned

    AnnoCPAN, Annotated CPAN documentation
        http://annocpan.org/dist/Config-Versioned

    CPAN Ratings
        http://cpanratings.perl.org/d/Config-Versioned

    Search CPAN
        http://search.cpan.org/dist/Config-Versioned/


COPYRIGHT AND LICENCE

Copyright (C) 2011 Scott T. Hardin

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.

