NAME
    Device::Solenodrive - Interface to the solenodrive hardware

VERSION
    version 0.1

SYNOPSIS
    my $solenodrive = Device::Solenodrive->new(device => '/dev/ttyUSB0');

DESCRIPTION
    Host software to interface to solenodrive hardware.

METHODS
  "new(%parameters)"
    This constructor returns a new Device::Solenodrive object. Supported
    parameters are listed below

    device
        The target device to connect to. This can be either a serial port
        object (e.g. /dev/ttyUSB0) or a TCP socket (e.g.
        192.168.1.52:10001).

    baudrate
        Optional parameter when using a serial port for connecting to the
        bootloader. Default value is 57600 bps.

    verbose
        Controls the verbosity of the module. Defaults to 0. Increasing
        numbers make the module more chatty. 5 is the highest level and
        probably provides too much information. 3 is a good level to get
        started.

  "connect_target()"
    Opens the connection to the device that provides the RS485 interface,
    should be called before trying to send commands

  "set(ID, channel)"
    Sets the channel "channel" of the Solenodrive with ID "ID" active.

  "enumerate()"
    Enumerate the devices on the bus, reports the addresses of the devices
    together with their firmware version. The returned object is a hash
    containing the address/firmware version pairs. Only supported from
    Solenodrive firmware v1.1 and upwards.

  "disconnect_target()"
    Closes the connection to the RS485 bus.

  "list_devices()"
    List the devices that were discovered after enumeration.

  "BUILD"
    An internal function used by Moose to run code after the constructor.
    Need to document because otherwise Test::Pod::Coverage test fails

  "O_NDELAY"
    Detected by Pod::Coverage from the sysopen function. Stub documenation
    to ensure the test does not fail when the module is deployed.

  "O_NOCTTY"
    Detected by Pod::Coverage from the sysopen function. Stub documenation
    to ensure the test does not fail when the module is deployed.

  "O_RDWR"
    Detected by Pod::Coverage from the sysopen function. Stub documenation
    to ensure the test does not fail when the module is deployed.

AUTHOR
    Lieven Hollevoet <hollie@cpan.org>

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
    This software is copyright (c) 2013 by Lieven Hollevoet.

    This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
    the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

