NAME

    Datahub::Factory - A conveyor belt which transports data from a data
    source to a data sink.

SYNOPSIS

    dhconveyor [ARGUMENTS] [OPTIONS]

DESCRIPTION

    Datahub::Factory is a command line conveyor belt which automates three
    tasks:

    Data is fetched automatically from a local or remote data source.

    Data is converted to an exchange format.

    The output is pushed to a data sink.

    Datahub::Factory fetches data from several sources as specified by the
    Importer settings, executes a Fix and sends it to a data sink, set by
    Exporter. Several importer and exporter modules are supported.

    Datahub::Factory contains Log4perl support to monitor conveyor belt
    operations.

    Note: This toolset is not a generic tool. It has been tailored towards
    the functional requirements of the Flemish Art Collection use case.

CONFIGURATION

 Command line options

    All commands share the following switches:

    --log_level

      Set the log_level. Takes a numeric parameter. Supported levels are: 1
      (WARN), 2 (INFO), 3 (DEBUG). WARN (1) is the default.

    --log_output

      Selects an output for the log messages. By default, it will send them
      to STDERR (pass STDERR as parameter), but STDOUT (STDOUT) and a log
      file (logs/import_-date-.log) (STATISTICS) are also supported.

COMMANDS

 help COMMAND

    Documentation about command line options.

    It is possible to provide either all importer and/or exporter options
    on the command line, or to create a pipeline configuration file that
    sets those options.

 transport [OPTIONS]

    Fetch data from a local or remote source, convert it to an exchange
    format and export the data.

    Datahub::Factory::Command::transport

AUTHORS

    Pieter De Praetere <pieter@packed.be>

    Matthias Vandermaesen <matthias.vandermaesen@vlaamsekunstcollectie.be>

COPYRIGHT

    Copyright 2016 - PACKED vzw, Vlaamse Kunstcollectie vzw

LICENSE

    This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
    under the terms of the GPLv3.

