Catalyst::ActionRole::Methods

This is a Catalyst extension which adds additional dispatch based on the
HTTP method, in the same way Catalyst::Action::REST does:

An action which does this role will be matched and run as usual. But
after it returns, a sub-action will also run, which will be identified by
taking the name of the main action and appending an underscore and the
HTTP request method name. This sub-action is passed the same captures and
args as the main action.

You can also write the sub-action as a plain method without declaring it
as an action. Probably the only advantage of declaring it as an action is
that other action roles can then be applied to it.

There are several fallbacks if a sub-action for the current request
method does not exist:

1. "HEAD" requests will try to use the sub-action for "GET".

2. "OPTIONS" requests will set up a 204 (No Content) response.

3. The "not_implemented" sub-action is tried as a last resort.

4. Finally, a 405 (Method Not Found) response is set up.

Both fallback responses include an "Allow" header which will be populated
from the available sub-actions.

Note that this action role only *adds* dispatch. It does not affect
matching! The main action will always run if it otherwise matches the
request, even if no suitable sub-action exists and a 405 is generated.
Nor does it affect chaining. All subsequent actions in a chain will still
run, along with their sub-actions.

INSTALLATION

This is a Perl module distribution. It should be installed with whichever
tool you use to manage your installation of Perl, e.g. any of

  cpanm .
  cpan  .
  cpanp -i .

Consult http://www.cpan.org/modules/INSTALL.html for further instruction.
Should you wish to install this module manually, the procedure is

  perl Makefile.PL
  make
  make test
  make install

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2024 by Aristotle Pagaltzis.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.
