NAME
    pip - The Perl Installation Program, for scripted and third-party
    distribution installation.

SYNOPSIS
      pip script.p5i
      pip script.p5z
      pip Distribution-1.23.tgz
      pip Distribution-1.23.tar.gz
      pip Distribution-1.23-MSWin32-5.8.0.par
      pip http://server/Distribution-1.23.tar.gz
      pip http://github.com/gitpan/Distribution/tarball/1.23

DESCRIPTION
    The pip ("Perl Installation Program") console application is used to
    install Perl distributions in a wide variety of formats, both from CPAN
    and from external third-party locations, while supporting module
    dependencies that go across the boundary from third-party to CPAN.

    Using pip you can install CPAN modules, arbitrary tarballs from both the
    local file-system or across the internet from arbitrary URIs.

    You can use pip to ensure that specific versions of CPAN modules are
    installed *instead* of the most current version.

    And beyond just single installations, you script script a series of
    these installations by creating a "P5I" (Perl 5 Installation) file.

    A Perl 5 Installation (P5I) file is a small script-like file that
    describes a set of distributions to install, and integrates the
    installation of these distributions with the CPAN installer.

    The primary use of P5I files are for installing proprietary or non-CPAN
    software that may still require the installation of a number of CPAN
    dependencies in order to function.

    P5I files are also extensible, with the first line of the file
    specifying the name of the Perl class that implements the plan.

    For the moment, the class described at the top of the P5I file must be
    installed.

    The simple Module::Plan::Lite plan class is bundled with the main
    distribution, and additional types can be installed if needed.

  Future Additions
    Also on the development schedule for pip is the creation and
    installation of distributions via "P5Z" files, which are tarballs
    containing a P5I file, as well as all the distribution tarballs
    referenced by the P5I file.

    It is also anticipated that pip will gain support for PAR binary
    packages and potentially also for ActivePerl PPM files.

USAGE
    The primary use of pip is to install from a P5I script, with the
    canonical use case as follows:

      pip directory/myplan.p5i

    This command will load the plan file directory/myplan.p5i, create the
    plan, and then execute it.

    If only a directory name is given, pip will look for a default.p5i plan
    in the directory. Thus, all of the following are equivalent

      pip directory
      pip directory/
      pip directory/default.p5i

    If no target is provided at all, then the current directory will be
    used. Thus, the following are equivalent

      pip
      pip .
      pip default.p5i
      pip ./default.p5i

  Syntax of a plan file
    Initially, the only plan is available is the Module::Plan::Lite (MPL)
    plan.

    A typical MPL plan will look like the following

      # myplan.p5i
      Module::Plan::Lite
      
  Process-0.17.tar.gz
      YAML-Tiny-0.10.tar.gz

  Direct installation of a single tarball
    With the functionality available in pip, you can find that sometimes you
    don't even want to make a file at all, you just want to install a single
    tarball.

    The "-i" option lets you pass the name of a single file and it will
    treat it as an installer for that single file. Further, if the extension
    of the tarball is .tar.gz, the -i option is implied.

    For example, the following are equivalent.

      # Installing with the -i|--install option
      > pip Process-0.17.tar.gz
      > pip -i Process-0.17.tar.gz
      > pip --install Process-0.17.tar.gz
      
  # Installing from the file as normal
      > pip ./default.p5i
      
  # myplan.p5i
      Module::Plan::Lite
      
  Process-0.17.tar.gz

    The "-i" option can be used with any single value supported by
    Module::Plan::Lite (see above).

    This means you can also use pip to install a distribution from any
    arbitrary URI, including installing direct from a subversion repository.

      > pip http://svn.ali.as/cpan/release/Process-0.17.tar.gz

SUPPORT
    This module is stored in an Open Repository at the following address.

    <http://svn.ali.as/cpan/trunk/pip>

    Write access to the repository is made available automatically to any
    published CPAN author, and to most other volunteers on request.

    If you are able to submit your bug report in the form of new (failing)
    unit tests, or can apply your fix directly instead of submitting a
    patch, you are strongly encouraged to do so. The author currently
    maintains over 100 modules and it may take some time to deal with
    non-Critical bug reports or patches.

    This will guarentee that your issue will be addressed in the next
    release of the module.

    If you cannot provide a direct test or fix, or don't have time to do so,
    then regular bug reports are still accepted and appreciated via the CPAN
    bug tracker.

    <http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/ReportBug.html?Queue=pip>

    For other issues, for commercial enhancement and support, or to have
    your write access enabled for the repository, contact the author at the
    email address above.

AUTHORS
    Adam Kennedy <adamk@cpan.org>

SEE ALSO
    Module::Plan::Base, Module::Plan::Lite, Module::Plan

COPYRIGHT
    Copyright 2006 - 2010 Adam Kennedy.

    This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
    under the same terms as Perl itself.

    The full text of the license can be found in the LICENSE file included
    with this module.

