Linux-DVB-DVBT 
==============

Linux::DVB::DVBT is a package that provides an object interface to any installed Freeview 
tuner cards fitted to a Linux PC. The package supports initial set up (i.e. frequency scanning),
searching for the latest electronic program guide (EPG), and selecting a channel for recording
the video to disk.

Example scripts have been provided in the package which illustrate the expected use of the package (and
are useable programs in themselves). For futher details please see 'perldoc Linux::DVB::DVBT'.


INSTALLATION

To install this module type the following:

   perl Makefile.PL
   make
   make test
   make install

LARGE FILE SUPPORT

I've added the appropriate compile options to enable the module to be compiled with large file support. These options will be enabled
if your Perl build supports it (set in your config.pm when Perl was installed). Without this, recordings were limited to 2G (approx 2 hours).

If you find you still have problems recording large files, then you can always use dvbt-ffrec (instead of dvbt-record). This gets ffmpeg to
do the work of creating the file (and transcoding it to mpeg format).


DEPENDENCIES

This module requires these other modules and libraries:

use File::Basename ;
use File::Path ;
use File::Spec ;
use POSIX qw(strftime);


DOCUMENTATION

Along with the installed perldoc, you can optionally create the Doxygen HTML files for the C library. 
This will be of little interest to general Perl users of the module, but may be of interest to developers
or those that are trying to debug a problem with the module's interaction with their tuner.

Just run

	make doxygen
	
This will create HTML files in ./doxygen/html, the file ./doxygen/html/index.html is the top-level.

DEBUG

If you have any problems, particularly with scanning, please re-run with debug set to 15 and send me the
log file (see my CPAN email). I'll try to fix the problem as soon as possible.


COPYRIGHT AND LICENCE

Copyright (C) 2008 by Steve Price

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.8.8 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.


