Here are the examples in the samples directory of the distribution directory:

PERL:

Object Oriented - Instances show up separately:

rollerinst     - a script which rolls two DiePairs
DiePair.pm     - an OO module which manages two Die objects
Die.pm         - an OO module which produces random integers like a die
methods        - a list of methods to show on the diagram
rollerinst.xml - a sequence xml for rollerinst
rollerinst.svg - that sequence diagram in svg format
rollerinst.png - that sequence diagram in png format

These diagrams were produced with these commands:
genericseq.pl UML::Sequence::PerlOOSeq rollerinst.methods rollerinst > rollerinst.xml
seq2svg.pl rollerinst.xml > rollerinst.svg
cd $BATIK_HOME
java -jar batik-rasterizer.jar ~/samples/rollerinst.svg

Using PerlOOSeq separates the two DiePair instances into separate columns
in the diagram.  It does the same for all four Die instances.  See below
for what happens when these are combined.

Function Oriented (or Object Oriented with one life line per class)
Even though this example uses objects, you don't have to.  Remember
that function and method in Perl are interchangeable in most cases.

roller     - a script which rolls one DiePair
DiePair.pm, Die.pm, and methods (see above)
roller.xml - a sequence diagram for roller
roller.svg - that sequence diagram in svg format
roller.png - that sequence diagram in png format

These diagrams were produced with these commands:
genericseq.pl UML::Sequence::PerlSeq roller.methods roller > roller.xml
seq2svg.pl roller.xml > roller.svg
cd $BATIK_HOME
java -jar batik-rasterizer.jar ~/samples/roller.svg

Using PerlSeq conflates all instances of any class onto the same life line.
Note that both Die objects share a single life line in the picture.
For many Perl programs there are no objects and this is ideal.  For genuine
multi-object programs, see PerlOOSeq above.

This approach is better for function oriented programs.  Just substitute
function for method in all descriptions.  Just as Die::new is the constructor
of the die class, FuncPack::roll is the roll function in the FuncPack package.
The default package is always main.

TEXT OUTLINES:

washcar     - a text file outlining the steps in washing a car
washcar.xml - a sequence diagram for washing the car
washcar.svg - that diagram in svg format
washcar.png - that diagram in png format

These diagrams were produced with these commands:
genericseq.pl -t "Wash Car" UML::Sequence::SimpleSeq washcar > washcar.xml
seq2svg.pl washcar.xml > washcar.svg
java -jar batik-rasterizer.jar ~/samples/washcar.svg

Using SimpleSeq you can easily produce a diagram from a text file in few
minutes (or seconds).
Any invocation of genericseq.pl can include a -t title flag as shown in
the washcar example.

Additionally, a "deluxe" wash is available:

deluxewash.seq  - a text file outlining the steps in washing a car
deluxewash.xml - a sequence diagram for washing the car
deluxewash.svg - that diagram in svg format
deluxewash.png - that diagram in png format
deluxewash.html - HTML using the PNG output

These diagrams were produced with these commands:

genericseq.pl -t "Wash Car" UML::Sequence::SimpleSeq deluxewash.seq > deluxewash.xml
seq2svg.pl -m deluxewash.html -P ./ -c #80ffff -a yellow -e -o deluxewash.svg deluxewash.xml 
seq2rast.pl -m deluxewash.html -P ./ -c #80ffff -a yellow -e -o deluxewash.png deluxewash.xml 

NOTE: Using "-j" instead of "-e" produces tooltip'd annotations, but requires
a (free) third party Javascript file.

JAVA:

Roller.java        - rolls a DiePair and prints the results
DiePair.java       - class to manage two Die objects
Die.java           - class to generate random integers like physical dice do
Rollerjava.methods - requests all methods from above classes (documented)
rollerjava.xml     - a sequence diagram for Roller.java
rollerjava.svg     - that diagram in svg format
rollerjava.png     - that diagram in png format

These diagrams were produced with these commands:
genericseq.pl UML::Sequence::JavaSeq Rollerjava.methods Roller > rollerjava.xml
seq2svg.pl rollerjava.xml > rollerjava.svg
java -jar batik-rasterizer.jar ~/samples/rollerjava.svg

Using JavaSeq you can produce diagrams for Java programs as they run.
You must have an SDK 1.3 or higher (which includes the jpda in its tools.jar).
The tools.jar file and Seq.class must be in your CLASSPATH.  From my tests it
seems like your computer may need to have a networking interface up for this
to work.
