Pen version 1.00
================

Pen's syntax was developed in the earliest days of web application 
development, when the dominant technology for web apps was CGI
and server-side-include technology.  The syntax is designed to minimize
its footprint in a design-intensive consulting environment where designers, 
not programmers, controlled and maintained the final HTML product.

Inherently, all Web apps are built using MVC architecture.  The MVC View 
consists of formatting languages HTML, XHTML and JavaScript; the MVC Model 
is developed in a control language- if you're reading this, probably Perl.
It follows, then, that every solution for web app development implements 
MVC.  Given its original circumstances, the Pen solution implements the 
View-Control integration with a stronger bias towards the View side.

Originally, this solution was primarily intended for publishing database 
content.  It's been deployed on hundreds of websites, including some
fairly sophisticated apps.  The installed base is currently pretty small,
but there's still a little pressure to accomodate it by publishing.

This module represents a slightly different approach to the problem 
of adding run-time logic and functionality to a website.  It's a solution
I prefer, and hope that others may appreciate it as well.  This module
is not a sophisticated technical implementation.  It was originally
written in Perl 4 and still uses Regex for parsing.  I would love 
to implement more state-of-the-art technology if that opportunity
presents itself.

The Perl community has always emphasized the language on its 
considerable technical strengths instead of market domination or cheesey 
gimmicks.  But unfortunately, Perl is no longer the obvious first 
choice for web developers.  In light of that fact, this module was 
renamed with a cute three letter acronym.

INSTALLATION

To install this module type the following:

   perl Makefile.PL
   make
   make test
   make install

DEPENDENCIES

This module requires these other modules and libraries:

  None

COPYRIGHT AND LICENCE

Put the correct copyright and licence information here.

Copyright (C) 2011 by Jim Schueler Total Quality Information Systems

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.8.9 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.


