NAME
    Perl::Critic::More - Supplemental policies for Perl::Critic

SYNOPSIS
      perl -MCPAN -e'install Perl::Critic::More'
      perlcritic -theme more lib/Foo.pm

AFFILIATION
    This file has no functionality, but instead is a placeholder for a loose
    collection of Perl::Critic policies. All of those policies will have an
    "Affiliation" section announcing their participation in this grouping.

DESCRIPTION
    This is a collection of Perl::Critic policies that are not included in
    the Perl::Critic core for a variety of reasons:

    *   Experimental

        Some policies need some time to work out their kinks, test
        usability, or gauge community interest. A subset of these will end
        up in the core Perl::Critic someday.

    *   Requires special dependencies

        For example, some policies require development versions of PPI (or
        some other CPAN module). These will likely end up in the
        Perl::Critic core when their dependencies are fulfilled.

    *   Peripheral to Perl

        For example, the "Editor::RequireEmacsFileVariables" policy is
        metacode. Also, the "Miscellanea::RequireRcsKeywords" policy
        pertains to the development process, not the code itself. These are
        not part of Perl::Critic's mission.

    *   Special purpose

        For example, policies like "CodeLayout::RequireASCII" designed to
        scratch itches not felt by most of the community. These will always
        remain in a Perl::Critic supplement instead of in the core.

    All of these policies have the theme "more" so they can be turned off as
    a group via .perlcriticrc by adding this line:

      theme = not more

    The special purpose ones may be part of the "notrecommended" theme.
    Avoid these via:

      theme = not notrecommended

    Sorry about the double-negative... See "CONFIGURATION" in Perl::Critic
    for details on how to interact with themes.

SEE ALSO
    Perl::Critic

    Perl::Critic::Bangs - Andy Lester's fantastic list of code pet peeves

    Perl::Critic::Lax - RJBS' more-lenient versions of some core
    Perl::Critic policies

    parrot - the parrot team has developed a few specialized Perl::Critic
    policies of their own

AUTHOR
    Chris Dolan <cdolan@cpan.org>

    The included policies may have other authors -- please see them
    individually.

    This distribution is controlled by the Perl::Critic team. If you want to
    add a policy to this collection, check out our Subversion repository and
    mailing lists at <http://perlcritic.tigris.org>.

COPYRIGHT
    Copyright (c) 2006-2008 Chris Dolan

    This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
    under the same terms as Perl itself. The full text of this license can
    be found in the LICENSE file included with this module.

