NAME
    RT::Action::NotifyGroup - RT Action that sends notifications to groups
    and/or users

DESCRIPTION
    RT action module that allow you to notify particular groups and/or
    users. Distribution is shipped with "rt-notify-group-admin" script that
    is command line tool for managing NotifyGroup scrip actions. For more
    more info see its documentation.

INSTALL
            perl Makefile.PL
            make
            make install

NAME
    rt-notify-group-admin - Command line tool for administrating NotifyGroup
    actions

SYNOPSIS
            rt-notify-group-admin --list
            rt-notify-group-admin --create 'Notify foo team' --group Foo
            rt-notify-group-admin --create 'Notify foo team as comment' --comment --group Foo
            rt-notify-group-admin --create 'Notify group Foo and Bar' --group Foo --group Bar
            rt-notify-group-admin --create 'Notify user foo@bar.com' --user foo@bar.com
            rt-notify-group-admin --create 'Notify VIPs' --user vip1@bar.com
            rt-notify-group-admin --add 'Notify VIPs' --user vip2@bar.com --group vip1 --user vip3@foo.com
            rt-notify-group-admin --rename 'Notify VIPs' --newname 'Inform VIPs'
            rt-notify-group-admin --switch 'Notify VIPs'
            rt-notify-group-admin --delete 'Notify user foo@bar.com'

DESCRIPTION
    rt-notify-group-admin

USAGE
    rt-notify-group-admin --COMMAND ARGS

COMMANDS
  list
    Lists actions and its descriptions.

  create NAME [--comment] [--group GNAME] [--user UNAME]
    Creates new action with NAME and adds users and/or groups to its
    recipient list. Would be notify as comment if --comment specified.

  add NAME [--group GNAME] [--user UNAME]
    Adds groups and/or users to recipients of the action NAME.

  delete NAME
    Deletes action NAME if scrips doesn't use it.

  switch NAME
    Switch action NAME from notify as correspondence to comment and back.

  rename NAME --newname NEWNAME
    Renames action NAME to NEWNAME.

  NOTES
    If command has option --group or --user then you can use it more then
    once, if other is not specified.

AUTHOR
            Ruslan U. Zakirov
            cubic@wildgate.miee.ru

COPYRIGHT
    This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
    under the same terms as Perl itself.

    The full text of the license can be found in the LICENSE file included
    with perl distribution.

