NAME
    Lazy::Lockfile - File based locking for the lazy.

SYNOPSIS
     use Lazy::Lockfile;

     my $lockfile = Lazy::Lockfile->new() || die "Couldn't get lock!";
     ...
     # Lock is released when $lockfile goes out of scope or your program exits.

DESCRIPTION
    Lazy::Lockfile is a module designed for simple locking through the use
    of lockfiles, requiring very little effort on the part of the developer.
    Once the object is instanced, the lock will be held as long as object
    exists. When the object is destroyed, the lock is released.

    Locks are based around the existence of a named file, not around the use
    of flock (though flock is used to synchronize access to the lock file).
    Lazy::Lockfile is (usually) smart enough to detect stale lockfiles from
    PIDs no longer running by placing the PID of the process holding the
    lock inside the lockfile.

NOTES
    Lazy::Lockfile is not safe for use on NFS volumes.

    Lazy::Lockfile is not tested to interact correctly with other file
    locking systems when used on the same lockfile.

    Lazy::Lockfile uses kill (with signal zero) to determine if the lockfile
    is stale. This works on most systems running as most users but there are
    likely instances where this will fail. If this applies to your system,
    you can use the no_pid option to disable the check.

    If Lazy::Lockfile encounters a malformed lockfile (empty, containing
    other text, etc), it will treat it as a corrupt file and overwrite it,
    assuming the lock. The author believes this behavior should be changed
    (and malformed files should be left untouched), but has kept this
    behavior for backwards compatibility.

USAGE
    All of the magic in Lazy::Lockfile is done through the constructor and
    destructor.

METHODS
  new
    Constructor for Lazy::Lockfile.

   Parameters
    Accepts a single optional parameter, a hashref containing the following
    options:

   location
    Specifies the full path to the location of the lockfile. Defaults to:

     '/tmp/' . (fileparse($0))[0] . '.pid'

    i.e., the name of the program being run, with a ".pid" extension, in
    /tmp/.

   no_pid
    If true, instead of writing the PID file, a value of "0" is written
    instead. When read by another instance of Lazy::Lockfile attempting to
    acquire the lock, no PID check will be performed and the lock will be
    assumed to be active as long as the file exists. Defaults to false.

   delete_on_destroy
    If true, sets the "delete on destroy" flag. This flag defaults to true,
    which causes the lockfile to be removed when the object is destroyed.
    Generally, this is the desired behavior. When set to false, this flag
    prevents the lockfile from being removed automatically when the object
    is destroyed. See also "delete_on_destroy".

   Compatibility
    For compatibility with older versions of Lazy::Lockfile (pre-1.0), a
    single optional parameter is accepted, the path to the lockfile. This
    parameter functions the same as the 'location' parameter described
    above.

    As stated above, malformed lockfiles will be overwritten, though this
    may be subject to change in a future version.

   Return value
    If the lock can not be obtained, undef is returned (and $! will contain
    useful information). Otherwise, the lock is exclusive to this process,
    as long as the object exists.

   Example
     my $lockfile = Lazy::Lockfile->new( { location => "/var/lock", no_pid => 1 } )
         || die "Couldn't get lock!";

  name
    Returns the file name of the lockfile.

  delete_on_destroy
    Gets or sets the "delete on destroy" flag.

    If called without a parameter (or with undef), delete_on_destroy will
    return the current state of the "delete on destroy" flag. If called with
    a parameter, this flag will be set.

  unlock
    Explicitly removes the lockfile, just as if the object were destroyed.
    Once this has been called, delete_on_destroy will be set to false, since
    the lock has already been deleted. Once this method is called, there is
    not much use left for the object, so the user may as well delete it now.

    unlock should be used when the lockfile needs to be removed
    deterministically while the program is running. If you simply remove all
    references to the Lazy::Lockfile object, the lock will be freed when
    garbage collection is run, which is not guaranteed to happen until the
    program exits (though it will likely happen immediately).

    Returns a true value if the lockfile was found and removed, false
    otherwise.

CHANGES
  2014-10-30, 1,22 - jeagle
    Add missing dependency.

  2014-09-14, 1.21 - jeagle
    Re-package to make it easier to convert to RPM, etc.

  2012-04-01, 1.20 - jeagle
    Updated documentation, thanks Alister W.

  2011-01-05, 1.19 - jeagle
    Change to unit tests to appease cpantesters.

  2011-01-04, 1.18 - jeagle
    Implement suggestion by srezic to check PIDs belonging to other users
    (RT#69185).

    Clean up documentation.

  2010-06-22, 1.17 - jeagle
    Update unlock to return a useful status.

  2010-06-22, 1.16 - jeagle
    Version bumps for migration to CPAN.

  2009-12-03, 1.14 - jeagle
    Fix a bug causing lockfiles with no_pid to not be deleted on
    destroy/unlink.

  2009-12-03, 1.13 - jeagle
    Add the unlock method, to allow for deterministic lockfile removal at
    runtime.

  2009-11-30, 1.12 - jeagle
    Update documentation to clarify delete_on_destroy parameter default
    setting.

  2009-07-06, 1.11 - jeagle
    Fix error thrown when running with taint checking enabled.

  2009-07-06, 1.10 - jeagle
    Fix a bug with lockfile location being overwritten with the default.

  2009-07-06, 1.9 - jeagle
    Add new parameter, no_pid, which disabled active lockfile checks.

    Allow constructor to accept multiple parameters via hashref.

  2009-06-10, 0.4 - jeagle
    Introduce the delete_on_destroy flag.

  2009-06-03, 0.3 - jeagle
    Open pid file with O_NOFOLLOW, to avoid symlink attacks.

    Change default pid file location from /var/tmp to /tmp.

    Correct dates in CHANGES section.

    Add useful error indicators, documentation on error detection.

  2009-04-27, 0.2 - jeagle
    Fix a bug with unspecified lockfile paths trying to create impossible
    file names.

  2009-04-06, v0.1 - jeagle
    Initial release.

