Acme-MetaSyntactic-soviet

This module is a theme for Acme::MetaSyntactic, giving the NATO
codenames for various Soviet equipments.

INSTALLATION

To install this module, use the CPAN shell or cpanminus.

Or you can use the manual way by running the following commands:

        perl Makefile.PL
        make
        make test
        make install

There is also a Build.PL file, but since Module::Build is no longer recommended,
this installation procedure has not been tested for this version.

SUPPORT AND DOCUMENTATION

After installing, you can find documentation for this module with the
perldoc command.

    perldoc Acme::MetaSyntactic::soviet

You can also look for information at:

    meta::CPAN
        https://metacpan.org/pod/Acme::MetaSyntactic::soviet

Please report problems with Github's issues tracker:
        https://github.com/jforget/Acme-MetaSyntactic-soviet/issues

WHY THIS THEME ABOUT SOVIET STUFF?

First, because Acme::MetaSyntactic is fun.

Second: As a wargamer interested (among  other eras) in the air combat
and the  naval combat in  the second half of  the XXth century,  be it
hypothetical wars or historical wars, I have no problems to find lists
of Soviet  aircraft with their  NATO designations and  Soviet missiles
with  their   NATO  designations.  On   the  other  hand,   finding  a
comprehensive list of radars or sonars is difficult. When I discovered
Internet and the web, I had hope  finding a website that would give me
the list I did not find in printed books. No luck.

So, I  would have to  build myself a webpage  with the list  of soviet
radars.  When I  saw how  search.cpan.org  would render  POD files,  I
decided to format the  list as a POD file and to  have it displayed by
search.cpan.org. How would I do that? By writing a Perl module.

Since  then,  search.cpan.org  has   disappeared  from  the  web,  but
metacpan.org does a  POD rendering as good  as search.cpan.org. That's
OK for me. So I know there is a webpage listing all soviet radars with
their  NATO designation,  this webpage  is the  POD documentation  for
Acme::MetaSyntactic::soviet.

COPYRIGHT AND LICENCE

Copyright (C) 2008, 2012, 2016, 2021 Jean Forget

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and you can modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.

