$Id: INSTALL,v 1.1 2003/09/28 11:50:44 rwmj Exp $

Installing Net::FTPServer
-------------------------

Prerequisites:

  perl >= 5.00503

  Archive::Zip     optional       If you want to allow users to create ZIP
				  files from directories on the fly (so-called
				  "archive mode"), you need this module.

  Authen::PAM      optional       If you want to do PAM authentication (eg.
                                  you have Red Hat Linux or Solaris).

  BSD::Resource    optional       If you want resource limits to avoid certain
				  types of denial of service (DoS) attack.

  Compress::Zlib   optional       If you want to allow users to create ZIP
				  files from directories on the fly (so-called
				  "archive mode"), you need this module.

  Digest::MD5      optional       If you want the SITE CHECKSUM command
                                  to work correctly.

  File::Sync       optional	  Needed for SITE SYNC command.

  Getopt::Long     required       This is usually supplied as part of the
                                  basic Perl package.

  IO               required       This is also normally included in the
                                  basic Perl package, but make sure you
                                  have a pretty recent version.

  IO-stringy       required       This is now required by the main server.
				  Make sure you have at least version 1.220
				  from CPAN which includes some important
				  bug fixes.

  bzip2            optional       If an external "bzip2" program is available,
				  it can be used to create archives
				  automatically.

  gzip             optional       If an external "gzip" program is available,
				  it can be used to create archives
				  automatically.

  uuencode         optional       If an external "uuencode" program is
				  available, it can be used to create
				  uuencoded archives automatically.

To compile:

  perl Makefile.PL
  make
  make test

To install (usually as root):

  make install

You can override where the configuration file will go
by specifying the SYSCONFDIR setting.  /etc is the default.
Or to avoid installing a configuration altogether use
"make NOCONF=1 install" instead.

The documentation should be automatically installed. Do:

  man Net::FTPServer

or if you don't have a working man pages system, do:

  pod2man lib/Net/FTPServer.pm | nroff -man | more

Read the section "INSTALLING AND RUNNING THE SERVER" to find out how
to change the configuration file to suit your local situation, and how
to start and stop the server.
