Getopt::Mixed version 1.12, released February 8, 2014


This module is obsolete.

Getopt::Mixed provides GNU-style option processing for Perl 5 scripts,
with both long and short options.  Please see the documentation at the
end of the module for instructions on its use and licensing
restrictions.

However, some time ago Getopt::Long was changed to support short
options as well, and it has the huge advantage of being part of the
standard Perl distribution.  So, Getopt::Mixed is now effectively
obsolete.  I don't intend to make any more changes, but I'm leaving it
available for people who have code that already uses it.  For new
modules, I recommend using Getopt::Long like this:

    use Getopt::Long;
    Getopt::Long::Configure(qw(bundling no_getopt_compat));
    GetOptions(...option-descriptions...);

You can use Makefile.PL to install Getopt::Mixed, but all you really
need to do is copy lib/Getopt/Mixed.pm to your Perl library.

There are two sample scripts in the examples/ directory.
They accept the following options and associated arguments:
  -a, --apples=N     Mandatory real number argument
      --apricots=N   Mandatory real number argument
  -b[N]              Optional integer argument
  -c                 No arguments
  -d[STRING]         Optional string argument
  -f, --file=STRING  Mandatory string argument
      --pears=N      Mandatory real number argument
  -?, --help         No arguments
  -V, --version      No arguments

Since these are just sample scripts, the options don't actually mean
anything.  simple demonstrates the simple method of using
Getopt::Mixed, and flexible demonstrates the flexible method.



INSTALLATION

To install this module, run the following commands:

	perl Makefile.PL
	make
	make test
	make install



DEPENDENCIES

  Package   Minimum Version
  --------- ---------------
  perl       5.000
  Carp       
  Exporter



CHANGES
    Here's what's new in version 1.12 of Getopt-Mixed:
    (See the file "Changes" for the full revision history.)

	- No functional changes
	- Minor documentation & metadata improvements



COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 1995 by Christopher J. Madsen.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.
