README for Perl extension File-Copy-Recursive-Reduced
  File-Copy-Recursive-Reduced is a Perl library which provides
  subroutines exported on request which are intended to serve as
  drop-in replacements for certain subroutines found in CPAN
  distribution File-Copy-Recursive
  <http://search.cpan.org/~dmuey/File-Copy-Recursive-0.40/> (FCR).

 What Problem Does This Library Address?
  As of early April 2018, FCR was failing to install on several
  important operating systems including FreeBSD and Windows. As a
  consequence, other CPAN distributions which had a direct or
  indirect dependency on FCR (*e.g.*, CPAN-Reporter, DateTime,
  Dist-Zilla) were failing to install on those platforms as well.

  Such failures were "silent" in the sense that CPANtesters
  installations generate no report authors when a distribution's
  upstream dependencies fail to install. No report to the
  CPANtesters database means no email notification to CPAN
  authors. So many authors were unaware that their distributions
  were failing to install on important platforms.

  Uncertainty as to when FCR would be fixed led to the creation of
  File-Copy-Recursive-Reduced (FCR2). Certain CPAN distributions
  adopted it in place of FCR. With the April 19 2018 release of
  FCR version 0.41, the problems that motivated the creation of
  FCR2 have been addressed.

  FCR2 is now feature-complete. It exports three functions on
  demand which are substantially equivalent to their FCR
  equivalents:

  *   "fcopy()"

  *   "dircopy()"

  *   "rcopy()"

  After installation, call perldoc File::Copy::Recursive::Reduced
  for more usage details.

  These functions are quite appropriate in situations such as test
  suites where the user has full knowledge of the files,
  directories and symlinks to be recursively copied and does not
  need to manipulate the environment by setting localized versions
  of FCR's package global variables.

 Install
  This library can be installed in the customary way, *i.e.,* by a
  CPAN installer program such as cpan or cpanm or by satisfying
  its prerequisites (Capture::Tiny and Path::Tiny, for the test
  suite only) and then calling:

      perl Makefile.PL
      make
      make test
      make install

  For further information, after installation call "perldoc
  File::Copy::Recursive::Reduced".

