Beam::Runner

This distribution is an execution and organization system for runnable
objects (tasks). This allows you to prepare a list of runnable tasks in
configuration files and then execute them. This also allows easy
discovery of configuration files and objects, and allows you to document
your objects for your users.

  Create a Task

A task is an object that consumes the Beam::Runnable role. This role
requires only a "run()" method be implemented in the class. This "run()"
method should accept all the arguments given on the command line. It can
parse GNU-style options out of this array using "GetOptionsFromArray" in
Getopt::Long.

Task modules can compose additional roles to easily add more features,
like adding a timeout with Beam::Runnable::Timeout::Alarm.

Task modules are expected to have documentation that will be displayed
by the "beam list" and "beam help" commands. The "beam list" command
will display the "NAME" section of the documentation, and the "beam
help" command will display the "NAME", "SYNOPSIS", "DESCRIPTION",
"ARGUMENTS", "OPTIONS", "ENVIRONMENT", and "SEE ALSO" sections of the
documentation.

  Configuration Files

The configuration file is a Beam::Wire container file that describes
objects. Some of these objects are marked as executable tasks by
consuming the Beam::Runnable role.

The container file can have a special entry called $summary which has a
short summary that will be displayed when using the "beam list" command.

Here's an example container file that has a summary, configures a
DBIx::Class schema (using the schema class for CPAN Testers:
CPAN::Testers::Schema), and configures a runnable task called
"to_metabase" located in the class
"CPAN::Testers::Backend::Migrate::ToMetabase":

    # migrate.yml
    $summary: Migrate data between databases

    _schema:
        $class: CPAN::Testers::Schema
        $method: connect_from_config

    to_metabase:
        $class: CPAN::Testers::Backend::Migrate::ToMetabase
        schema:
            $ref: _schema

For more information about container files, see the Beam::Wire
documentation.

INSTALLATION

This is a Perl module distribution. It should be installed with whichever
tool you use to manage your installation of Perl, e.g. any of

  cpanm .
  cpan  .
  cpanp -i .

Consult http://www.cpan.org/modules/INSTALL.html for further instruction.
Should you wish to install this module manually, the procedure is

  perl Makefile.PL
  make
  make test
  make install

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2016 by Doug Bell.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.
