Net::Whois::RIPE

A pure-perl programming interface to the RIPE Database Whois service.

This is an evolution of the module I inherited from Luis Motta Campos.
Which was a complete rewrite of the old version of the module inherited from
Paul Gampe. It incorporated new concepts Luis have learned while working at the
RIPE NCC between Nov 2007 and Jan 2010. 

I've strived to maintain backward compatibility while providing a modern perl
implementation featuring all the currently available features of a RIPE
Database client.

For more information about the RIPE Database, please refer to the RIPE NCC
website at http://www.ripe.net/whois

INSTALLATION

To install this module, run the following commands:

	perl Makefile.PL
	make
	make test
	make install

SUPPORT AND DOCUMENTATION

After installing, you can find documentation for this module with the
perldoc command.

    perldoc Net::Whois::RIPE

You can also look for information at:

    GitHub 
        https://github.com/arhuman/Net-Whois-RIPE


    Search CPAN
        http://search.cpan.org/dist/Net-Whois-RIPE

AUTHORS

Arnaud Assad
Luis Motta Campos
Paul Gampe
Kevin Backer

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

Thanks to DOOLTA (https://www.doolta.com) for allowing Arnaud Assad to work on this module during some of his office
hours.

Thanks to Luis Motta Campos for giving me (Arnaud Assad) the maintenance of this
module on CPAN;

Thanks to RIPE NCC for allowing Luis Motta Campos to work on this during some of his office
hours.

Thanks to Paul Gampe for allowing Luis Motta Campos to handle me the maintenance of this
module on CPAN;

Thanks to Paul Gampe and Kevin Backer for writing previous versions of this
module;

Thanks to Carlos Fuentes for the nice patch with bugfixes for version 2.00_008.
Thanks to Moritz Lenz for all his contributions
Thanks to Noris Network AG for allowing him to contribute to this module.

COPYRIGHT & LICENSE

Copyright 2012-2020 Arnaud Assad
Copyright 2010 Luis Motta Campos, all rights reserved.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.

