NAME
    USAGE How to use the Ngram Statistics Package (Text-NSP)

SYNOPSIS
    Examples of how to use NSP.

DESCRIPTION
    These are some sample usages of NSP. While this is not intended to be an
    exhaustive treatment of the various features, it should give you some
    idea of some of the ways you can use NSP.

  GETTING HELP
     count.pl -help

     rank.pl -help

     statistic.pl -help

  COUNT.PL
    *   count all the bigrams in h.txt and store counts in holmes1.out

         count.pl h.cnt h.txt

    *   count all bigrams that occur 5 or more times and store counts in
        holmes1.out5 AND create a histogram of the bigram counts and store
        in h-5.hist

         count.pl -frequency 5 -hist h-5.hist h-5.cnt h.txt

    *   exclude all bigrams made up two words from stop.txt

         count.pl -stop stop.txt h-stop.cnt h.txt

    *   count all bigrams that occur within a 4 word window AND use a stop
        list (this is especially useful to prevent bigrams caused by
        multiple occurrences of frequent words within the given window size
        (like 'and and' 'of of' etc.)

         count.pl -stop stop.txt -window 4 h-stop-w5.cnt h.txt

  STATISTIC.PL
    *   create a list of bigrams ranked by log-likelihood ratios. only allow
        scores of 6.00 or better among bigrams that occur more 3 or more
        times. (if you had used count to exclude certain frequencies you
        could simply use that file as input) (the .pm after the test name is
        optional)

         statistic.pl -score 6.00 -frequency 5 ll.pm holmes1.ll h.cnt

    *   create a list of bigrams ranked by fisher's exact test (left sided)
        that only allow scores of 0.90 or better

         statistic.pl -score 0.90 leftFisher.pm h.fish h.cnt

    *   create a list of the top 10 bigrams as ranked by the dice
        coefficient.

         statistic.pl -rank 10 dice.pm h.dice h.cnt

    *   create a formatted report where bigrams are ranked by pointwise
        mutual information values, reported to 4 digits of precision.

         statistic.pl -format mi.pm -precision 4 h.report h.cnt

  RANK.PL
    *   compare the ranked list of bigrams created by pointwise mutual
        information and the log-likelihood ratio. make comparisons based on
        3 digits of precision.

         rank.pl -precision 3 mi ll h.mi-ll-rank h.cnt

    *   compare the ranked list of bigrams created by pointwise mutual
        information and the dice coefficient. make comparisons based on 5
        digits of precision and compare only the top 10 bigrams selected by
        mutual information.

         rank.pl -precision 5 -rank 10 mi dice h.mi-dice-rank h.cnt

    *   compare the ranked list of bigrams found by fisher's exact test and
        the dice coefficient. make comparisons based on 2 digits of
        precision and compare only those bigrams that score greater than
        0.90 on fisher's exact test.

         rank.pl -precision 5 -score 0.90 leftFisher dice h.fish-dice-rank h.cnt

AUTHOR
    Ted Pedersen, tpederse at d.umn.edu

BUGS
    Last update on 02/15/01 by TDP based on BSP v0.3. This is very old, and
    should be updated to include many more examples of both command line use
    of NSP as well as module use.

SEE ALSO
     NSP home :    L<http://ngram.sourceforge.net> 

     NSP mailing list: L<http://groups.yahoo.com/group/ngram/>

COPYRIGHT
    Copyright (C) 2000-2003 Ted Pedersen.

    Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
    under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
    any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
    Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.

    Note: a copy of the GNU Free Documentation License is available on the
    web at <http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/fdl.html> and is included in this
    distribution as FDL.txt.

