NAME
    CatalystX::Starter - bootstrap a CPAN-able Catalyst component

SYNOPSIS
    Like "module-starter", but sane:

      $ catalystx-starter 'Module::Name'
      $ cd Module-Name
      $ git init
      $ mv gitignore .gitignore
      $ git add .gitignore *
      $ git ci -m 'Start my component'

    Then edit Changes and README to taste

      $ mg README
      $ mg Changes
      $ git ci -a -m 'update Changes and README'

    Then you're ready to work:

      $ make test
      00load.............ok
      live...............ok
      All tests successful.

      $ prove --lib t/author # don't want users running these
      pod................ok
      pod-coverage.......ok
      All tests successful.

DESCRIPTION
    Recently, I've stopped using "Module::Starter", because it generates way
    too much boilerplate and not enough of stuff I actually need. I find it
    easier to just start with nothing and manually write what I need.

    "CatalystX::Starter" automates this minimalism for me. It will create
    everything you need to start developing a Catalyst component or plugin,
    but won't create useless crap that you just have to delete.

    Here's what you get:

    "t/lib/TestApp"
        A live app that can be run from tests (including "t/live-test.t").
        It also comes with the "testapp_server.pl" and "testapp_test.pl", so
        you can try our your TestApp from the command line. Yay for never
        having to write this again.

        So far, I've wasted more than an hour of my life typing this exact
        TestApp code in again and again. Now it's automatic. FINALLY.

    Makefile.PL
        "Module::Install"-based Makefile.PL with "build_requires" set up to
        run the default tests.

    gitignore
        Save yourself the effort of setting up a ".gitignore". You can of
        course import this as "svn:ignore" or ".cvsignore". I use git, so
        that's what you get by default.

        Note that you have to rename this yourself, because I want git to
        track it, not treat it as an ignore file.

    MANIFEST.SKIP
        A useful MANIFEST.SKIP that ignores stuff that "make" leaves lying
        around, and my ".git" directory.

    Changes / README
        No text in here. Change it to what you want it to look like.

    "lib/Your/Module.pm"
        Almost nothing:

           package Your::Module;
           use strict;
           use warnings;

           1;

        Write the POD yourself. You're smart enough to remember that the
        sequence is NAME, SYNOPSIS, DESCRIPTION, METHODS, BUGS, AUTHOR,
        COPYRIGHT. If not... now you are :)

    That's about it. Enjoy.

SEE ALSO
    "catalyst.pl", for creating Catalyst applications.

    Module::Starter, if you like deleting code more than writing it.

AUTHOR
    Jonathan Rockway "<jrockway@cpan.org>".

COPYRIGHT
    I don't assert any copyright over the generated files. This module
    itself is copyright (c) 2007 Jonathan Rockway and is licensed under the
    same terms as Perl itself.

