*** THIS MODULE IS NOW DEPRECATED -- USE GD::Graph INSTEAD ***

This is PNGgraph 1.21, a package to generate PNG charts, using Lincoln
Stein's GD.pm.  It's a wrapper around GD::Graph, provided for backward
compatibility with existing Chart::PNGgraph scripts only.

This package is deprecated. I would recommend that you use GD::Graph
directly.

INSTALLATION

needed to install (also see TESTED PLATFORMS):

	perl 5.005 (5.004 might work)
	GD > 1.18
	GD::Graph
	GDTextUtils (for GD::Graph)

to install:

	perl Makefile.PL
	make
	make install

to see some samples:

	cd samples
	make

That should generate a set of pngs, which you can view using the HTML
pages in the same directory (or whichever other way pleases you).

IMPORTANT CHANGE SINCE VERSION 1.15

Chart::PNGgraph no longer contains any of the code to generate charts. Instead
it has become a wrapper around GD::Graph. The main reason for this is
that the two code bases for GIFgraph and Chart::PNGgraph have been
merged back together, and will be maintained in a single spot again.
Blame Unisys and their childishness over the LZW patent for all this.

GD VERSIONS

If you want to use a GD version 1.20 or up, you will need to have
something installed that can do an on-the-fly conversion of PNG to GIF.
I can't recommend that you do this way, but there may be some obscure
and odd reason that you want to produce PNG images, but have to use an
old GD. If you have to: I recommend that you use Image::Magick, since
that is what the Chart::PNGgraph module has been setup to use. If you
don't want to, or can't install Image::Magick, you will have to edit the
file Chart/PNGgraph/Convert.pm to provide a different sub gif2png.

TESTED PLATFORMS

None.  In fact the tests have been removed as a reminder that this package
now exists solely for backward compatibility.  If your existing scripts work
with this module, then that is all that's important at this stage.

AUTHOR

Martien Verbruggen
mgjv@comdyn.com.au

PNG PORT

Steve Bonds
sbonds@agora.rdrop.com

COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 1995-1999 Martien Verbruggen. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 1999 Steve Bonds.  All rights reserved.

This package is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

