NAME

    cpangitify - Convert cpan distribution from BackPAN to a git repository

VERSION

    version 0.12

SYNOPSIS

     % cpangitify Foo::Bar

DESCRIPTION

    This script fetches all known revisions of a distribution from
    CPAN/BackPAN and creates a git repository with one revision and one tag
    for each version of the distribution.

    The idea is to create a starting point for a git work flow when
    adopting a CPAN module for which you don't have access to the original
    repository. It is of course better to import from Subversion or to
    clone an existing git repository, but that may not be an option.

    If the distribution you are migrating changed names during its history,
    simply specify each name it had on the command line. Be sure to specify
    the current name first (this will be used when creating a directory
    name for the repository). For example Mojolicious::Plugin::TtRenderer
    was once called MojoX::Renderer::TT, so you would get both names in the
    history like this:

     % cpangitify Mojolicious::Plugin::TtRenderer MojoX::Renderer::TT

OPTIONS

 --resume

    Resume the import from CPAN. Note that any local changes will be
    overwritten by the CPAN upstream (your modifications will remain in the
    repository history).

 --output | -o directory

    Creat the new repository in the given directory.

 --skip version

    Skip the given versions. Can be specified multiple times and can be
    provided as a comma separated list.

 --trace

    Print each git command before it is executed.

 --backpan_index_url

    The URL to use for the BackPAN index

 --backpan_url

    The URL to use for BackPAN

 --metacpan_url

    The URL to use for metacpan.

 --help | -h

    Print out help and exit.

 --version

    Print out version and exit.

CAVEATS

    Each commit belongs to the CPAN author who submitted the corresponding
    release, therefore git blame may not be that useful for the imported
    portion of your new repository history.

    The commits are ordered by date, so where there are interleaving of
    releases that belong to development and production branches this simple
    minded script will probably do the wrong thing.

    Patches are welcome.

SEE ALSO

    Here are some similar projects:

      * Git::CPAN::Patch

      Comes with a git cpan import which does something similar. With this
      incantation I was able to get a repository for YAML (including
      history, but without authors and without the correct dates):

       % mkdir YAML
       % git init .
       % git cpan import --backpan YAML
       % git merge remotes/cpan/master

      One advantage here over cpangitify is that you should then later be
      able to import/merge future CPAN releases into yours.
      Git::CPAN::Patch also has a bunch of other useful tools for creating
      and submitting patches and may be worth checking out.

      If you do an internet search for this sort of thing you may see
      references to git-backpan-init, but this does not appear to be part
      of the Git::CPAN::Patch anymore (I believe git-import with the
      --backpan option is the equivalent).

      In general cpangitify is a one trick poney (though good at that one
      thing), and Git::CPAN::Patch is a Batman's utility belt with
      documentation that (for me at least) is pretty impenetrable.

      * gitpan <https://github.com/gitpan>

      Doesn't appear to have been updated in a number of years.

      * ggoosen's cpan2git <https://github.com/ggoossen/cpan2git>

    The reason I am not using the latter two is that they are designed to
    mirror the whole of CPAN/BackPAN, but I'm mostly just interested in one
    or two distributions here and there.

AUTHOR

    Graham Ollis <plicease@cpan.org>

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

    This software is copyright (c) 2013 by Graham Ollis.

    This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
    the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

