Encode-RAD50 is Copyright (C) 2005-2007, 2011-2022 by Thomas R. Wyant, III

DESCRIPTION

This piece of retrocomputing converts between an ASCII subset and Rad50,
an encoding only used, to the best of my knowledge, for the Digital
(R.I.P.) PDP-11 computer, under (at least) the RSX-11 (including IAS and
P/OS), RT-11, RSTS (-11 and /E)  operating systems.

There are two subroutines/methods (depending on whether you call them
directly or not): encode and decode. Nothing is exported by default,
since both names strike me as candidates for collision.

See the eg directory for samples.

I have no idea what anyone would want to use this for.

INSTALLATION

This package is installable by either of the two usual incantations:

    tar -xzf Encode-RAD50-9.999.tar
    perl Makefile.PL
    make
    make test
    make install

or

    tar -xzf Encode-RAD50-9.999.tar
    perl Build.PL
    ./Build
    ./Build test
    sudo ./Build install

You should substitute the appropriate program name for 'make', eg nmake
(typically) under MSWin32, or mms or mmk under VMS. See
ftp://ftp.microsoft.com/Softlib/MSLFILES/nmake15.exe for a copy of
nmake for MSWin32 if you need it.

Of course, since it's pure Perl, you can just expand the kit and drop
the .pm files into the Encode directory (creating it if necessary) in
the appropriate place in your @INC directories.

LICENSING INFORMATION

This package is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl 5.10.0. For more details, see the full text
of the licenses in the directory LICENSES.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
without any warranty; without even the implied warranty of
merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.


----------------------------------

This module is installable by the usual incantation:

    gunzip Convert-Rad50-9.999.tar.gz
    tar -xf Convert-Rad50-9.999.tar
    perl Makefile.PL
    make
    make test
    make install

Of course, since it's pure Perl, you can just expand the kit and drop
Rad50.pm in the Convert directory in the appropriate place in your
@INC directories.

See the eg directory for samples.

I have no idea what anyone would want to use this for.

Tom Wyant
