	-*- Indented-text -*-
$Id: README 477 2014-12-14 05:35:36Z hayashi $

Term::ReadLine::Gnu --- GNU Readline Library Wrapper Module

	Copyright (c) 1996 Hiroo Hayashi.  All rights reserved.

	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
	modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

Description:

	Term::ReadLine::Gnu (TRG) is an implementation of the
	interface to the GNU Readline Library.  This module gives you
	input line editing facility, input history management
	facility, word completion facility, etc.  It uses the real GNU
	Readline Library and has the interface with the almost all
	variables and functions which are documented in the GNU
	Readline/History Library.  So you can program your custom
	editing function, your custom completion function, and so on
	with Perl.  TRG may be useful for a C programmer to prototype
	a program which uses the GNU Readline Library.

	TRG is upper compatible with Term::ReadLine included in Perl
	distribution.  Term::ReadLine uses TRG automatically when TRG
	is available.  You can enjoy full line editing feature with
	Perl debugger which use Term::ReadLine with no patch.

	Ilya Zakharevich distributes his implementation,
	Term::ReadLine::Perl, which bases on Jeffrey Friedl's
	readline.pl.  His module works very well, and is easy to
	install because it is written by only Perl.  I am trying to
	make my module compatible with his.  He gives useful advises
	for me.  Unfortunately readline.pl simulated old GNU Readline
	library before TRG was born.  For example, it was not 8 bit
	clean and it warns to the variables in ~/.inputrc which it did
	not know yet.  We Japanese usually use 8 bit characters, so
	this was bad feature for me.  I could make a patch for these
	problems but I had interest with C interface facility and
	dynamic loading facility of Perl, so I thought it was a good
	chance for me to study them.  Then I made this module instead
	of fixing his module.

Prerequisites:
	You must have Perl 5.8 or later.  If you have to use old Perl
	for some reason, use Term::ReadLine::Gnu 1.09.  (I recommend
	you to use newer Perl.)

	You must have GNU Readline Library Version 2.1 or later.  See
	INSTALL for more detail.

	A report said GNU Readline Library might not work with perl with
	sfio.  Since I do not have sfio library, I am not sure.

How to build/install:
	See INSTALL.

Bugs:
	There may be many bugs in both programs and documents.
	Comments and bug reports are very welcome. Send me a E-Mail or
	open a ticket on the bug tracker at rt.cpan.org;

	http://rt.cpan.org/Dist/Display.html?Queue=Term-ReadLine-Gnu

Author:
	Hiroo Hayashi <hiroo.hayashi@computer.org>

Project Home Page
	http://sourceforge.net/projects/perl-trg/

Revision History:
	See Changes.
