NAME
    Filesys::Type - Portable way of determining the type of a file system.

SYNOPSIS
      use Filesys::Type qw(fstype);
  
      ...
      my $fs = '/mnt/hda7';
      warn "Not able to share with Windows"
         if (fstype($fs) ne 'vfat');

DESCRIPTION
    This module provides a portable interface, either to Unix mount -n or to
    Win32::filesys or to another native OS interface.

    The module is pluggable, which will allow for other operating systems to
    be added in future without needing to change the core module.

  fstype
    This exportable function takes a string, which is a file or directory
    path, and returns the file system type, e.g. vfat, ntfs, ext2, etc. Note
    that the exact string returned is operating system dependent.

  case
    This is another exportable function that takes a path as input, and
    returns one of the following:

    "sensitive"
        like Unix ext2, ext3, etc.

    "lower"
        VMS ODS-2 filenames are case insensitive. System services return the
        names in upper case, but the CRTL which provides globbing and the
        command line interface turns to lower case.

    "insensitive"
        This is the behaviour of Windows file systems, FAT16, FAT32 and
        NTFS. The file names are case insensitive, i.e. foo, Foo and FOO
        refer to the same file, but the initial case of the letters of the
        file name is preserved from the time it was created.

INSTALLATION

    This uses a standard CPAN install:

	    perl Makefile.PL
	    make
	    make test
	    make install

    replace make with nmake for Windows

BUGS
        Please report bugs to http://rt.cpan.org. Post to
        bug-filesys-type@rt.cpan.org

HISTORY
        0.01 Sun Jun 12 2005 - original version; created by
        ExtUtils::ModuleMaker 0.32

AUTHOR
                I. Williams
                ivorw@cpan.org

COPYRIGHT
        This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
        it under the same terms as Perl itself.

        The full text of the license can be found in the LICENSE file
        included with this module.

SEE ALSO
        Win32.

