Games::FEAR::Log

This module allows the parsing of a F.E.A.R. multiplayer server log into a
manageable database format, and provides an easy to use object-oriented
interface to access that information.  This information could then be used
to create a CGI scoreboard application, such as the one included in the
/examples directory.

The underlying system uses a SQL relational database to store and retrieve
game information.  Initially, this implimentation is built to use a MySQL or
PostgreSQL database, but I can add support for other database systems if
there is a demand.

Ideally, there could be two different 'pieces' to an application using this
module, an administrative interface to import new log entries into the
database, and a public interface to display and/or cross-reference already
imported information.

If performance is not a concern, however, it could be a one-piece
application where new entries are checked for and added every time the
interface is viewed.

INSTALLATION

To install this module, run the following commands:

    perl Makefile.PL
    make
    make test
    make install

TESTING

There is an optional connectivity test run during 'make test' that creates
a table and reads/writes it.  If you have an active supported database and
would like to run this test, set the following environment variables:

    DBI_DSN    DSN as used by the DBI module
    DBI_USER   Username (must have permissions to create and write to a table)
    DBI_PASS   Password for the given username

If these environment variables are already defined on your system and you
do NOT want to run the connectivity test, simply set the DBI_DSN variable
to an empty string.  On a *nix system, this can be done just for the
current command:

    DBI_DSN='' make test

COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2007 Evan Kaufman, <evank at cpan.org>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
