Installation Instructions
-------------------------

Usually all you have to do is:

	perl Makefile.PL
	make
	make test
	make install
	make clean

If this fails, regard the following instructions step by step.
Note that this module does not support installation by the CPAN(++) module.

Options:

-> Support for Solaris VxFS should be added automatically if the module
   is installed. If not, #define or #undef SOLARIS_VXFS in myconfig.h

-> If you want support for AFS, you need the OpenAFS package
   (tested with OpenAFS on (SuSE) Linux, HP-UX10, Solaris 2.6, 2.8, AIX 4.3
   and IRIX 6.5).
   The Makefile.PL tries to detect automatically if AFS is preset on a
   system. If that fails, edit the Makefile.PL to always define $hasafs
   (and drop me a mail).


1)  On Linux systems make sure you have configured your kernel with quota
    support. You also need the quota utilities and headers. E.g., with
    the SuSE Linux 6.0 distribution you'll find them in package ap::quota.
    If your distribution doesn't include the package you can get it from
    <URL:http://sourceforge.net/projects/linuxquota>. See also (6) below.

2)  Link or create the hints file.

 a) Should be done by Makefile.PL for all supported systems. If not, and
    there is a file below hints/ for your operating system (maybe for a
    previous release), just create a link named "myconfig.h" to that file:
    ln -s hints/my-os.h myconfig.h

 b) Else, use hints/none.h to create a myconfig.h of your own. Check which
    #includes you need in the online manuals. Contact me before you invest
    a lot of time, it might already be done.

    Edit Makefile.PL to maybe add/delete some libraries. Usually you'll
    need only librpcsvc for the quota RPC mechanism. If you don't have
    this library or it lacks the quota routines, #define MY_XDR in
    myconfig.h to include the routines provided with this module. If you
    don't have /usr/include/rpcsvc/rquota.h, include "include/rquota.h"
    instead. If you don't need RPC at all, just define NO_RPC.

3)  Generate the Makefile: perl Makefile.PL

4)  Compile the module: make

5)  Run "make test" to check if the module routines do work correctly.
    (Since release 1.0 you can test the module without installing)

6)  Linux specials:

 a) If you're using an ancient version of the Linux quota tools on a NFS
    server, check Quota::query() results for block usage and limits.
    Old versions of the rpc.rquotad did report a wrong block size, hence
    all sizes were 4 times too large.  If your system shows this error,
    you should uncomment #define LINUX_RQUOTAD_BUG in the hints file and
    recompile. The better solution is to update your quota tools though.

 b) If you're using RedHat 7.1 or later, or the Alan Cox (ac) branch of
    the Linux 2.4.x kernels, you're victim of a new and completely
    backwards incompatible Quota file format and quotactl API. If you've
    downloaded the kernel separately, make sure to install the latest
    version of the quota tools: see (1).

    If the Quota module does not find quotas for any users anymore, the
    reason may be you've not set up the new aquota.user/group files yet.
    Remember: after creating these files with quotackeck(8) or
    convertquota(8) you have to execute quotaon(8) another time. You'll
    not see this requirement with quota(1) because that program reads the
    quota files directly if the kernel query fails; the module however only
    goes through the kernel.  If in doubt, do an strace(1) on the quota(1)
    call. Normally you should see no access to the aquota files in the trace.
    Alternatively, make the quota files readable for root only (recommended
    anyway) and try quota -v again under a non-root login. If this fails,
    the kernel has not enabled quota support.

7)  To install the module in your perl tree:  "make install"
    You may need to su root before this step.

    The contrib directory contains some usage examples, donated by
    users. No guarantee from me that they do anything useful or don't
    format your hard drive.

8)  Before you start for another OS, type "make clean"

Please mail me any changes in the hints files or Makefile.PL you had to
apply to get the package to compile. Please remember to include in your
mail the name of used OS and version numbers of OS (uname -rs) and module.

Tom
---
email: tomzo AT nefkom DOT net
