NAME
    Lingua::EU::Numbers - Converts numbers into Bask (Euskara).

SYNOPSIS
      # Functional interface 
      use Lingua::EU::Numbers;
      my $number = shift;
      print "The cardinal value of $number is " . cardinal2alpha($number) . " in Euskara.\n";
      print "The ordinal value of $number is " . ordinal2alpha($number) . " in Euskara.\n";

DESCRIPTION
    This module converts numbers (cardinals and ordinals) into their
    Bask (Euskara) equivalents. It accepts positive integers up to, but
    not including, 1 trillion. Incidentally, the Bask counting system is
    vigesimal, i.e. base 20.

    The module uses unified Bask (Euskara Batua), which sometimes varies
    from the Bask spoken in the seven Bask provinces, especially from
    Labourd (Lapurdi) in the Northen Bask Country (Ipar Euskal Herria).
    However, Euskara Batua is the official Bask taught in Bask schools
    (Ikastolak) throughout the seven provinces.

    For example, the cardinal '18' is 'hemezortzi' in Euskara Batua,
    while it is 'hamazortzi' in Lapurdi. Those who wish to use their own
    version of Euskara can export %num2alpha and modify it at their own
    discretion.

    A Bask legend says that even the Devil did not succeed in learning
    this truly unique language, but that should not deter you from doing
    so. Euskara is an orphan language of mysterious origins, apparently
    unrelated to any language anywhere else in the world. It is believed
    to predate the Indo-European invasion and if so, this is one of the
    world's most ancient languages.

    Bask people refer to themselves as Euskaldunak, or 'speakers of the
    Euskara'. Being part of the Bask Nation is a question of language,
    not ethnicity or place of birth. There is not even a word for 'being
    a Bask' in Euskara. So if you learn this fascinating language, you
    too can become Euskaldun.

FUNCTIONS
    cardinal2alpha($number)
        This function accepts an integer (scalar) as a parameter and
        returns a string (array), which is its Bask cardinal equivalent.

        It returns `undef' if a)the argument passed is not defined, or
        b)the argument is not an integer, or c)the integer passed does
        not fall between zero and 999,999,999,999.

    ordinal2alpha($number)
        This function accepts an integer (scalar) as a parameter and
        returns a string (array), which is its Bask ordinal equivalent.

        It returns `undef' if a)the argument passed is not defined, or
        b)the argument is not an integer, or c)the integer passed does
        not fall between zero and 999,999,999,999.

EXPORT
    This module exports by default the functions cardinal2alpha() and
    ordinal2alpha(). It can also export the hash %num2alpha.

SOURCE
    The Bask encyclopedia "Administrazio-hizkeraren entziklopedia" and
    its web pages referring to Bask numbers (cardinals and ordinals) at:
    http://www.ivap.com/eusk/entziklo/kardinal.htm and
    http://www.ivap.com/eusk/entziklo/ordinal.htm.

BUGS AND COMMENTS
    If you find one, please use the Request Tracker Interface -
    http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/Bugs.html?Dist=Lingua-EU-Numbers to
    report it.

SEE ALSO
    Lingua::FR::Numbers, Lingua::Num2Word

THANKS
    Milesker to Briac Pilpré who gave me the idea for this module, and
    who also thought about exporting the hash %num2alpha for people
    wanting to use their own version of Euskara.

    Esker asko to Deric Gerlach who reviewed my English and my overall
    pod documentation.

AUTHOR
    Isabelle Hernandez, <isabelle@cpan.org>

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
    Copyright 2002 by Isabelle Hernandez

    This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the same terms as Perl itself.

