Win32API-File-Time is Copyright (C) 2004-2005 E. I. DuPont de Nemours
and Company, Inc. Copyright (C) 2007, 2010, 2016 by Thomas R.  Wyant, III.

DESCRIPTION

This package exposes the Windows file creation time for access and
modification. It also allows the access, update, and creation times
to be modified even if the file is open, or read-only. In fact, the
porting of functionality from a system where the Perl utime build-in
would change the date of an open file (VMS) to one where it wouldn't
(MSWin32) was the motivation for the module.

This module exports nothing by default, but is capable of exporting
the following subroutines:
    GetFileTime and SetFileTime (to get and set all file times)
    utime (to override the built-in).
Unlike the Microsoft Kernel32 subroutines of the same name, these take
a file name (not a handle), and work in terms of Perl times, not
Microsoft file times. Specifically:

  ($atime, $mtime, $ctime) = GetFileTime ($filename);
  SetFileTime ($filename, $atime, $mtime, $ctime) or die $^E;

This module has the following prerequisites:
  Time::Local
  Win32::API
  Win32API::File

INSTALLATION

Most Perl users will want to install using their favorite of either
'cpan' or 'cpanp'. For either of these, installing Astro::Coord::ECI
gets you everything. ActivePerl users will want to use ActiveState's
'ppi', and install Astro-satpass.

If for some reason neither of these works for you, you can download the
distribution and expand it using something like

    tar -xzf Win32API-File-Time-9.999.tar.gz

Users of MSWin32 (and perhaps other operating systems) may need to
convert the line endings in the expanded files from Unix to their native
system before proceeding.

Then, issue one of the following two incantations:

    perl Makefile.PL
    make
    make test
    sudo make install

or

    perl Build.PL
    ./Build
    ./Build test
    sudo ./Build install

You should substitute the appropriate program name for 'make', eg nmake
(typically) under MSWin32, or mms or mmk under VMS. See
ftp://ftp.microsoft.com/Softlib/MSLFILES/nmake15.exe for a copy of
nmake for MSWin32 if you need it.

Unix users may want to use 'su' rather than 'sudo' for the install.
Non-unix users may need to be logged in to an administrative or
otherwise privileged accout, and turn on privileges (if applicable) for
the install.

Of course, since it's pure Perl, you can just expand the kit and drop
the .pm files into the Win32/Process/Info directory (creating it if
necessary) in the appropriate place in your @INC directories.

LICENSING INFORMATION

This package is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl 5.10.0. For more details, see the full text
of the licenses in the directory LICENSES.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
without any warranty; without even the implied warranty of
merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.
