GPC.pm -- A perl5 interface to Alan Murta's gpc library.

ABSTRACT:

This is a autoloadable interface module for gpc (*), a popular library
for polygon clipping operations.  With this library you can perform
DIFFERENCE, INTERSECTION, XOR and UNION operations on polygons.

* (C) 1997-1999, Advanced Interfaces Group,
University of Manchester.


For full information on usage, see the accompanying man and html
documentation and http://www.cs.man.ac.uk/aig/staff/alan/software/

COPYRIGHT INFO

The GPC.pm interface is copyright 2002 Danny Van de Pol.  It is
covered by the Perl "Artistic License", which allows for free usage
and redistribution.  See the Artistic License in the Perl source
package for details.

THE LATEST VERSION IS 1.04

INSTALLATION:

Read these instructions all the way through before you start!

this is not guaranteed.

3.  Unpack the tar file:

	zcat GPC-1.XX.tar.gz | tar xvf -

    (Where "XX" is the most recent revision number.)  This will create
    the directory GPC-1.XX.

4.  To compile GPC.pm on a system that supports dynamic linking:

	a.  cd GPC-1.XX
	b.  perl MakefilePL
	c.  make
        d.  make test (optional)
	e.  make html (optional)
	f.  make install

    This will create GPC.pm, its HTML manual page, and install GPC into
    the system-wide Perl library directory.  You'll need root
    privileges to do the install step.  If you don't have them, see below.

IF YOU RUN INTO PROBLEMS

Some versions of Unix and Unix-like systems such as Linux ship with an
incomplete version of the Perl distribution.  If you get warnings such
as "Module ExtUtils::MakeMaker not found", you may have such a
system.  Your only option is to obtain the full Perl distribution and
reinstall it.

If you are trying to compile and link GPC on a Windows or Macintosh
machine and fail, please verify that you are able to build the Perl
distribution from source code.  If you can't do that, then you don't
have the compiler/linker/make tools required for building Perl
modules.

If you have problems and can't solve it on your own, post a message to
the newsgroup "comp.lang.perl.modules".  There are some systems that
require obscure compiler and linker options in order to compile
correctly, and unfortunately I have a limited number of systems at my
disposal.  You're much more likely to get correct answers from the
gurus on the newsgroup than from myself.

FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS

BUG REPORTS

Feel free to contact me via e-mail, subject to the caveats below.
Provide the version numbers of GPC, Perl, make and model of your
operating system, and make and model of your Web server, if
appropriate.  Provide a small script that demonstrates the bug.

Do NOT contact me for issues involving compilation failures on
Windows, VMS, or Macintosh systems.  I do not have any such systems on
hand, and cannot help you out.

WHAT'S NEW IN 1.XX

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS:

UPDATES:

The current version of GPC can be found at:

   http://www.cpan.org

AUTHOR:

Danny Van de Pol
daniel.van_de_pol@alcatel.be
http://www.alcatel.be
