First, edit Makefile.PL to change the LIBS and INC fields, which
specify the location of the ACE API librarie and include files. In the
verions of ACE that I got, the ACE client library is named
sdiclient.a; you should create a symlink to this file named
libsdiclient.a so that you can use the -lsdiclient syntax in the
Makefile.

You should be able to install by running these commands:

  perl Makefile.PL
  make
  make test
  make install

Before you can test this package, you will need to have a working ACE
server, and a SecurID card assigned to your username. 

Some of the tests require you to clear the PIN of a card and re-enter
it, so you'll also need administrative access to the ACE server while
you are running the tests. You may find it useful to have a second
card belonging to a test user for these tests, rather than clearing
the PIN of your own card. The PIN tests are optional if you don't want
to run them.

The machine that you run the tests on must be a valid ACE client, and
the your username (and the optional username) should be activated on
that machine. The system you are going to be testing from must already
have the /var/ace/sdconf.rec file installed. It would be nice if the
/var/ace/securid key file was already installed, but it will be
installed automatically during the tests as long as the username you
run the tests with has privilege to write to the /var/ace directory.

Because the interactive nature of SecurID requires you to enter a
time-sensitive token from a card, you cannot automate the test suite.
An ACE server will never accept the same token twice, so during the
testing, you will often be prompted to wait for the token on the card
to change before continuing with the test.

Finally, if you don't have the Term::ReadKey module installed, the PIN
changing test will display a new PIN in plain text on the screen. You
should use appropriate caution when doing this, and may want to change
the PIN or disable the token afterwards. Better yet, get and install
Term::ReadKey.
