NAME
    Term::App::Util::Size - Determine the sane terminal size (width, height)

VERSION
    This document describes version 0.002 of Term::App::Util::Size (from
    Perl distribution Term-App-Util-Size), released on 2020-06-10.

DESCRIPTION
FUNCTIONS
  term_height
    Usage:

     term_height() -> [status, msg, payload, meta]

    Try to determine the sane terminal height.

    First will observe the LINES environment variable, and use it if
    defined. Note that in a Unix shell like bash, COLUMNS and LINES are
    shell variables and not environment variables, so they are not inherited
    by child processes. You usually set the LINES environment variable when
    you want to override the terminal height.

    Then, if LINES is not defined, will try to use the Perl module
    Term::Size to determine the terminal size and use the result if succeed.

    Third, if the Perl module is not available, will run "tput lines" and
    use the output returned by tput if succeed.

    Otherwise will use the default value of 25.

    This function is not exported.

    No arguments.

    Returns an enveloped result (an array).

    First element (status) is an integer containing HTTP status code (200
    means OK, 4xx caller error, 5xx function error). Second element (msg) is
    a string containing error message, or 'OK' if status is 200. Third
    element (payload) is optional, the actual result. Fourth element (meta)
    is called result metadata and is optional, a hash that contains extra
    information.

    Return value: (any)

  term_width
    Usage:

     term_width() -> [status, msg, payload, meta]

    Try to determine the sane terminal width.

    First will observe the COLUMNS environment variable, and use it if
    defined. Note that in a Unix shell like bash, COLUMNS and LINES are
    shell variables and not environment variables, so they are not inherited
    by child processes. You usually set the COLUMNS environment variable
    when you want to override the terminal width.

    Then, if COLUMNS is not defined, will try to use Perl module Term::Size
    to determine the terminal size and use the result if succeed.

    Third, if the Perl module is not available, will run "tput cols" and use
    the output returned by tput if succeed.

    Otherwise will use the default value of 80 (79 on Windows; the default
    command prompt window is 80x25 but printing one character on rightmost
    column will cause the cursor to move to the next line, so we choose
    80-1).

    This function is not exported.

    No arguments.

    Returns an enveloped result (an array).

    First element (status) is an integer containing HTTP status code (200
    means OK, 4xx caller error, 5xx function error). Second element (msg) is
    a string containing error message, or 'OK' if status is 200. Third
    element (payload) is optional, the actual result. Fourth element (meta)
    is called result metadata and is optional, a hash that contains extra
    information.

    Return value: (any)

ENVIRONMENT
  COLUMNS
  LINES
HOMEPAGE
    Please visit the project's homepage at
    <https://metacpan.org/release/Term-App-Util-Size>.

SOURCE
    Source repository is at
    <https://github.com/perlancar/perl-Term-App-Util-Size>.

BUGS
    Please report any bugs or feature requests on the bugtracker website
    <https://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=Term-App-Util-Size>

    When submitting a bug or request, please include a test-file or a patch
    to an existing test-file that illustrates the bug or desired feature.

SEE ALSO
    Other "Term::App::Util::*" modules.

    Term::Size

AUTHOR
    perlancar <perlancar@cpan.org>

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
    This software is copyright (c) 2020 by perlancar@cpan.org.

    This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
    the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

