NAME
    perl-local-env - Easily create and activate a local::lib environment

SYNOPSIS
        perl-local-lib <environment-path> ...
             ... create
             ... activate
             ... run <command>

DESCRIPTION
    This tool provides a set of commands for creating and activating local
    environments created by local::lib.

WORKFLOW
  Create a local environment
        perl-local-lib <environment-path> create

    This will create a directory at the given path and configure it to work
    as a local environment. You only need to do this step once for each
    environment.

  Activate your environment
    Each time you want to run code in the context of the environment you
    must first activate it:

        perl-local-lib <environment-path> activate

    This will start a new child shell with the right settings to make "perl"
    look for libraries only in the local environment, and add the
    environment's "bin" directory to the "PATH" so that local tools are
    available.

    You can use that shell to run as many commands as you like in the
    context of the virtual environment, including "cpanm" to install new
    packages into the local environment.

  Exit the environment
    To leave the environment, just exit the shell that was launched by
    "activate" above. If you were already in a shell when you activated the
    environment, you will be returned to that shell.

OTHER COMMANDS
  Run an arbitrary command
    Rather than launching a full shell, you can launch an individual command
    in the context of the environment using the "run" command:

        perl-local-lib <environment-path> run <command>

    For example, you could use this to install Plack into your local
    environment without first launching a shell:

        perl-local-lib <environment-path> run cpanm Plack

CAVEATS
    This tool currently only works fully on UNIX systems. You may have
    limited success on other systems, but don't be surprised if things
    randomly go wrong.

SEE ALSO
    local::lib, cpanm

AUTHOR
    Copyright 2010 Martin Atkins and Six Apart Ltd. All Rights Reserved.

    This tool is redistributable under the same terms as perl itself.

