Announcing a new perl module:  Sex 0.69!

Sex can be had from any local CPAN mirror or from
http://www.pobox.com/~schwern/src/Sex-0.69.tar.gz Email your sysadmin
today and ask him or her for Sex!


NAME
    Sex - Perl teaches the birds and the bees.

SYNOPSIS
      package Catholicism;
      use Sex qw(strict Religion);

      package Mormonism;
      use Sex qw(Catholicism Sex);

DESCRIPTION
    Heterogeneous recombination of Perl packages.

    Given two (or more, I'm a liberal guy) packages, Sex.pm will recombine
    their symbols at random recombining them into the new module thus
    providing a cross-section of its functions and global variables. It will
    also push the parent classes onto the child's @ISA array.

    So you could do:

        package Net::SFTP;
        use Sex qw(Net::FTP Net::SSLeay);

    And get a secure FTP client!

    The recombination occurs in such a way to ensure that the child will
    contain -all- the symbols of both parents. Should two (or more) parents
    wish to bestow the same symbol on its child one will be chosen at
    random.

    For example:

        package DejaNews;
        use Sex qw(LWP::Simple Net::NNTP);

    LWP::Simple and Net::NNTP both have a head() function and thus they try
    to give head() to their child. Sex.pm will suck the head() off either
    LWP::Simple or Net::NNTP and stick it to DejaNews. Afterwards, DejaNews
    can procede to finally use its head().

    Here's another timely example for Sex in the 21st century:

        package URI::Bot9000;
        use Sex qw(URI LWP::RobotUA protected);

    Because of the dire consequences of having sex with URI, one should make
    sure you're well protected.

BUGS
    There are many bugs you can get from having Sex used too often on your
    computer. Please be sure your programs are Safe before they have Sex.

        package Trojan;
        use Sex qw(Safe Sex);

AUTHOR
    Michael 'The Porn King of CMU' Schwern <schwern@pobox.com>

SEE ALSO
    'Disco Dolls in Hot Skin'

    'Exhaused: The John Holmes Story'

    'Deep Recursion' starring Ada Lovelace.

    'The Fly' (1953)

