NAME
    Perl::Maker - Make a Custom Perl with Modules

SYNOPSIS
        > perl-maker --make ingy-perl-maker.yaml
        > make install

        > make perlbrew
        > make debian
        > make dmg
        > make rpm
        > make msi

STATUS
    This software is pre-alpha quality. Don't use it yet.

DESCRIPTION
    Perl::Maker creates a custom Perl installation, complete with an entire
    set of modules, based on a simple YAML specification. You can share the
    installation as a system package (like Debian for instance). You can
    also share the YAML specification, or use an existing one from somebody
    else.

    The point of Perl::Maker is to make usable Perl installations that are
    shareable. In many situations (especially in production environments),
    it is critical not just to require that Perl and some modules to be
    installed, but specific versions of things that are configured a
    specific way.

    With Perl::Maker, you specify all your requirements in a clean and
    simple YAML file. Perl::Maker will turn this into a Makefile. Then you
    simply invoke "make" to do all the necessary work. Since the Makefile
    targets know all their dependencies, when you make small changes to the
    YAML file, only the minimum work to accomplish your goals will be
    performed.

USAGE
    Perl::Maker installs a command line tool called "perl-maker". This
    section explains the commands you can use.

    perl-maker --new filename.yaml
        This will create a sample Perl::Maker YAML specification for you.

    perl-maker --make filename.yaml
        This will generate a "Makefile" from the YAML specification.

TARGETS
    This section describes the targets that you can use in the "Makefile",
    to do various tasks.

    make install
        This will build everything and install it for you.

    make debian
        This will make a Debian package that you can share and install on
        Debian based systems.

    make dmg
        This will make a Mac OS X distribution.

    make perlbrew
        Build and install in your perlbrew location.

AUTHOR
    Ingy döt Net <ingy@cpan.org>

COPYRIGHT
    Copyright (c) 2011. Ingy döt Net.

    This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
    under the same terms as Perl itself.

    See http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html

POD ERRORS
    Hey! The above document had some coding errors, which are explained
    below:

    Around line 64:
        Unknown directive: =enccoding

