NAME
    Date::SundayLetter - Calculates the Sunday Letters for a given year

SYNOPSIS
      use Date::SundayLetter;
      $letter = sundayletter( 1996 );

      - or just - 

      $letter = letter( 1996 );

DESCRIPTION
    Sunday Letters are an important concept from calendrics. Stated very
    simply, the sunday letter represents how many days after January 1 the
    first Sunday of the year is. Knowing the makes it easy to calculate the
    day of the week of a given day, when Easter falls, and a variety of
    other things.

    There is a full treatment of Sunday Latters in The Oxford Companion to
    the Year (Blackburn, Holford-Strevens).

    For example, the following table shows the Sunday Letters, given the day
    of the week of January 1:

     1 January      First Sunday    Sunday Letter
     Sunday         1 January       A
     Monday         7 January       G
     Tuesday        6 January       F
     Wednesday      5 January       E
     Thursday       4 January       D
     Friday         3 January       C
     Saturday       2 January       B

    In leap years, you have two Sunday Letters. After leap day, you have a
    Sunday Letter calculated with the usual formulae. Before leap day, the
    Sunday Letter is one place ahead of that (with A being considered one
    latter after G).

    Given the Sunday Letter and the Golden Number (see Date::GoldenNumber),
    you can immediately look up the dates for Easter (Gregorian or Julian)
    in a simple table. That is, if you happen to have said table. I'll try
    to put this table on my web site, but I need to ask the authors of The
    Oxford Companion first.

SUPPORT
    For support, email me directly (drbacchus@drbacchus.com) or subscribe to
    datetime@perl.org (see http://lists.perl.org/ for subscription
    information) and ask there.

AUTHOR
            Rich Bowen
            CPAN ID: RBOW
            rbowen@rcbowen.com
            http://www.rcbowen.com

COPYRIGHT
    Copyright (c) 2001 Rich Bowen. All rights reserved. This program is free
    software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms
    as Perl itself.

    The full text of the license can be found in the LICENSE file included
    with this module.

SEE ALSO
     perl(1).
     Date::ICal
     Reefknot (http://reefknot.org/)
     Date::Easter
     Date::Passover
     Date::Leapyear

