HTML::DOM, version 0.058

HTML::DOM is a Perl implementation of the HTML Document Object Model

This is an alpha release.  So far,  the level-2 core,  HTML and event
DOM interfaces have been implemented,  and some of the level-2  style
sheet interfaces.


RECENT CHANGES

See the Changes file for the long version.

0.058
-----
Bug fix:  When a  <button>  element is  clicked,  its  value  is  now
included in the form data even if it has no value.  Previously, value-
less buttons would be omitted.

0.057
-----
Bug fix:  $doc->base now returns the URL of the page if it is a  data
URL, instead of just ‘data:’.

0.056
-----
Bug fix:  $doc->title no longer dies when setting the title of a docu-
ment with no head node.
Miscellaneous:  The  make_request  method of form elements  has  been
tweaked to work with Encode 2.80.  Technically,  it was working,  but,
due to changed output in Encode 2.80,  the tests started failing.  So
now the MIME encoding is skipped on a  string  consisting  solely  of
spaces and printable ASCII.  (This was easier than  having  two  sets
of tests.)


TO DO

- Finish Level 2 CSS support
- outerHTML/innerText?
- Other DOM interfaces (the rest of level 2, and level 3)
- HTML 5 stuff
- Write more complete documentation
- Write more tests
- Finishing checking for memory leaks (run all tests under
  Devel::Leak::Object)


INSTALLATION

The easiest way to install this module is to use the CPAN module or
the cpan script:

    [sudo] perl -MCPAN -e "install HTML::DOM"

    [sudo] cpan HTML::DOM

Or you can use the following:

    perl Makefile.PL
    make
    make test
    [sudo] make install


DEPENDENCIES

This module requires perl 5.8.3 or higher and the following
Perl modules:

- Scalar::Util 1.14 or later
- Exporter 5.57 or later
- URI
- LWP 1.13 or later
- CSS::DOM 0.07 or later
- HTML::Tagset 3.02 or later
- HTML::Parser 3.46 or later
- HTML::Encoding is required if the parse_file method is to be used.
- Tie::RefHash::Weak 0.08 or higher, if you are using perl 5.8.x


DOCUMENTATION

After installing, you can find documentation for this module with the 
perldoc command.

    perldoc HTML::DOM

Or try using man (it's faster, in my experience):

    man HTML::DOM


COPYRIGHT AND LICENCE

Copyright (C) 2007-16 Father Chrysostomos

This program is free software; you may redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as perl.
