
			  Installation Of Stem

Installing Stem is simple as you can use the classic module install
commmands:

`	perl Makefile.PL
	make
	make test
	make install

The installation uses Module::Build so you have to have that. You can
get it from CPAN. The Makefile actually just is a passthrough that calls
the Build program and is there for compatibility. You can bypass make
and use the Build commands directly:

on UNIX flavors do this:

	perl Build.PL
	Build
	Build test
	Build install

on Windows do this:

	perl Build.PL
	perl Build
	perl Build test
	perl Build install

The perl Makefile.PL or perl Build.PL command will query you for a
short series of answers. These include where is perl, where to store the
Stem executable scripts, where to store the Stem configuration files,
etc. Each question will be explained in detail and has a reasonable
default value.

Stem has a set of demonstration applications and you will be asked if
you want to install them. The driver scripts use xterm to
bring up multiple windows so you can interact with the
demonstrations. The Build.PL script will find xterms on most UNIX
flavors that have X on them. OSX doesn't come with X by default but you
can install the X cdrom if you want.

NOTE: The xterm program is NOT required to run the demostrations. You
can run the scripts and the commands which create the xterms will be
printed. If you don't have xterms, they will fail but you can copy the
Stem command (the part after the -e) and run them in terminal windows
that you bring up yourself. This works on windows and OSX which doesn't
have X installed. Just run those Stem commands in the order they are
printed and each one in its own terminal window.

Another option for the demo scripts is called ssfe (split screen front
end). It is a general purpose C (UNIX only) utility that runs any
command and provides command line editing and history. It is a nice
little utility and it make running the demos a bit nicer. It is bundled
in a IRC application call sirc and if you ask for it to be installed,
the whole sirc package (just ssfe and sirc) will be built and
installed. This build/install will be run in its own xterm. When it is
done installing, it will sleep for a while. You can kill the xterm
window or ^C in it and the rest of the Stem installation will continue.

The installation answers you give will be stored in the module
Stem::InstallConfig for use by any Stem application. This module is used
by Build.PL to override the default installation answers. So the next
time you do perl Build.PL you will see the previous choices you made as
the defaults. Doing Build realclean will remove this module and you will
see the original default answers.

If you know the default answers are fully acceptable, you can do this:

	perl Build.PL use_defaults=1

and all the defaults will be used and no questions will be asked.
