Book II

Telemachus complains in vain, and borrowing a ship, goes
secretly to Pylos by night. And how he was there received.

Now so soon as early Dawn shone forth, the rosy-fingered,
the dear son of Odysseus gat him up from his bed, and put
on his raiment and cast his sharp sword about his shoulder,
and beneath his smooth feet he bound his goodly sandals,
and stept forth from his chamber in presence like a god.
And straightway he bade the clear-voiced heralds to call
the long-haired Achaeans to the assembly. And the heralds
called the gathering, and the Achaeans were assembled
quickly. Now when they were gathered and come together, he
went on his way to the assembly holding in his hand a spear
of bronze,--not alone he went, for two swift hounds bare
him company. Then Athene shed on him a wondrous grace, and
all the people marvelled at him as he came. And he sat him
in his father's seat and the elders gave place to him.

Then the lord Aegyptus spake among them first; bowed was he
with age, and skilled in things past number. Now for this
reason he spake that his dear son, the warrior Antiphus,
had gone in the hollow ships to Ilios of the goodly steeds;
but the savage Cyclops slew him in his hollow cave, and
made of him then his latest meal. Three other sons Aegyptus
had, and one consorted with the wooers, namely Eurynomus,
but two continued in their father's fields; yet even so
forgat he not that son, still mourning and sorrowing. So
weeping for his sake he made harangue and spake among them:

'Hearken now to me, ye men of Ithaca, to the word that I
shall say. Never hath our assembly or session been since
the day that goodly Odysseus departed in the hollow ships.
And now who was minded thus to assemble us? On what man
hath such sore need come, of the young men or of the elder
born? Hath he heard some tidings of the host now returning,
which he might plainly declare to us, for that he first
learned thereof, or doth he show forth and tell some other
matter of the common weal? Methinks he is a true man--good
luck be with him! Zeus vouchsafe him some good thing in his
turn, even all his heart's desire!'

So spake he, and the dear son of Odysseus was glad at the
omen of the word; nor sat he now much longer, but he burned
to speak, and he stood in mid assembly; and the herald
Peisenor, skilled in sage counsels, placed the staff in his
hands. Then he spake, accosting the old man first:

'Old man, he is not far off, and soon shalt thou know it
for thyself, he who called the folk together, even I: for
sorrow hath come to me in chief. Neither have I heard any
tidings of the host now returning, which I may plainly
declare to you, for that I first learned thereof; neither
do I show forth or tell any other matter of the common
weal, but mine own need, for that evil hath befallen my
house, a double woe. First, I have lost my noble sire, who
sometime was king among you here, and was gentle as a
father; and now is there an evil yet greater far, which
surely shall soon make grievous havoc of my whole house and
ruin all my livelihood. My mother did certain wooers beset
sore against her will, even the sons of those men that here
are the noblest. They are too craven to go to the house of
her father Icarius, that he may himself set the bride-price
for his daughter, and bestow her on whom he will, even on
him who finds favour in his sight. But they resorting to
our house day by day sacrifice oxen and sheep and fat
goats, and keep revel, and drink the dark wine recklessly,
and lo, our great wealth is wasted, for there is no man now
alive such as Odysseus was, to keep ruin from the house. As
for me I am nowise strong like him to ward mine own; verily
to the end of my days {*} shall I be a weakling and all
unskilled in prowess. Truly I would defend me if but
strength were mine; for deeds past sufferance have now been
wrought, and now my house is wasted utterly beyond pretence
of right. Resent it in your own hearts, and have regard to
your neighbours who dwell around, and tremble ye at the
anger of the gods, lest haply they turn upon you in wrath
at your evil deeds. {Or, lest they bring your evil deeds in
wrath on your own heads.} I pray you by Olympian Zeus and
by Themis, who looseth and gathereth the meetings of men,
let be, my friends, and leave me alone to waste in bitter
grief;-- unless it so be that my father, the good Odysseus,
out of evil heart wrought harm to the goodly-greaved
Achaeans, in quittance whereof ye now work me harm out of
evil hearts, and spur on these men. Better for me that ye
yourselves should eat up my treasures and my flocks. Were
YE so to devour them, ere long would some recompense be
made, for we would urge our plea throughout the town,
begging back our substance, until all should be restored.
But now without remedy are the pains that ye lay up in my
heart.'

{* Cf. B. xxi. 131. For the use of the 1st pers. pl. like
our ROYAL plural, cf. B. xvi.44, Il. vii. 190.}

So spake he in wrath, and dashed the staff to the ground,
and brake forth in tears; and pity fell on all the people.
Then all the others held their peace, and none had the
heart to answer Telemachus with hard words, but Antinous
alone made answer, saying:

'Telemachus, proud of speech and unrestrained in fury, what
is this thou hast said to put us to shame, and wouldest
fasten on us reproach? Behold the fault is not in the
Achaean wooers, but in thine own mother, for she is the
craftiest of women. For it is now the third year, and the
fourth is fast going by, since she began to deceive the
minds of the Achaeans in their breasts. She gives hope to
all, and makes promises to every man, and sends them
messages, but her mind is set on other things. And she hath
devised in her heart this wile besides; she set up in her
halls a mighty web, fine of woof and very wide, whereat she
would weave, and anon she spake among us:

'"Ye princely youths, my wooers, now that the goodly
Odysseus is dead, do ye abide patiently, how eager soever
to speed on this marriage of mine, till I finish the robe.
I would not that the threads perish to no avail, even this
shroud for the hero Laertes, against the day when the
ruinous doom shall bring him low, of death that lays men at
their length. So shall none of the Achaean women in the
land count it blame in me, as well might be, were he to lie
without a winding-sheet, a man that had gotten great
possessions."

'So spake she, and our high hearts consented thereto. So
then in the day time she would weave the mighty web, and in
the night unravel the same, when she had let place the
torches by her. Thus for the space of three years she hid
the thing by craft and beguiled the minds of the Achaeans;
but when the fourth year arrived and the seasons came
round, then at the last one of her women who knew all
declared it, and we found her unravelling the splendid web.
Thus she finished it perforce and sore against her will.
But as for thee, the wooers make thee answer thus, that
thou mayest know it in thine own heart, thou and all the
Achaeans! Send away thy mother, and bid her be married to
whomsoever her father commands, and whoso is well pleasing
unto her. But if she will continue for long to vex the sons
of the Achaeans, pondering in her heart those things that
Athene hath given her beyond women, knowledge of all fair
handiwork, yea, and cunning wit, and wiles--so be it! Such
wiles as hers we have never yet heard that any even of the
women of old did know, of those that aforetime were
fair-tressed Achaean ladies, Tyro, and Alcmene, and Mycene
with the bright crown. Not one of these in the imaginations
of their hearts was like unto Penelope, yet herein at least
her imagining was not good. For in despite of her the
wooers will devour thy living and thy substance, so long as
she is steadfast in such purpose as the gods now put within
her breast: great renown for herself she winneth, but for
thee regret for thy much livelihood. But we will neither go
to our own lands, nor otherwhere, till she marry that man
whom she will of the Achaeans.'

Then wise Telemachus answered him, saying: 'Antinous, I may
in no wise thrust forth from the house, against her will,
the woman that bare me, that reared me: while as for my
father he is abroad on the earth, whether he be alive or
dead. Moreover it is hard for me to make heavy restitution
to Icarius, as needs I must, if of mine own will I send my
mother away. For I shall have evil at his hand, at the hand
of her father, and some god will give me more besides, for
my mother will call down the dire Avengers as she departs
from the house, and I shall have blame of men; surely then
I will never speak this word. Nay, if your own heart, even
yours, is indignant, quit ye my halls, and busy yourselves
with other feasts, eating your own substance, and going in
turn from house to house. But if ye deem this a likelier
and a better thing, that one man's goods should perish
without atonement, then waste ye as ye will: and I will
call upon the everlasting gods, if haply Zeus may grant
that acts of recompense be made: so should ye hereafter
perish in the halls without atonement.'

So spake Telemachus, and in answer to his prayer did Zeus,
of the far borne voice, send forth two eagles in flight,
from on high, from the mountain-crest. Awhile they flew as
fleet as the blasts of the wind, side by side, with
straining of their pinions. But when they had now reached
the mid assembly, the place of many voices, there they
wheeled about and flapped their strong wings, and looked
down upon the heads of all, and destruction was in their
gaze. Then tore they with their talons each the other's
cheeks and neck on every side, and so sped to the right
across the dwellings and the city of the people. And the
men marvelled at the birds when they had sight of them, and
pondered in their hearts the things that should come to
pass. Yea and the old man, the lord Halitherses son of
Mastor spake among them, for he excelled his peers in
knowledge of birds, and in uttering words of fate. With
good will he made harangue and spake among them:

'Hearken to me now, ye men of Ithaca, to the word that I
shall say: and mainly to the wooers do I show forth and
tell these things, seeing that a mighty woe is rolling upon
them. For Odysseus shall not long be away from his friends,
nay, even now, it may be, he is near, and sowing the seeds
of death and fate for these men, every one; and he will be
a bane to many another likewise of us who dwell in
clear-seen Ithaca. But long ere that falls out let us
advise us how we may make an end of their mischief; yea,
let them of their own selves make an end, for this is the
better way for them, as will soon be seen. For I prophesy
not as one unproved, but with sure knowledge; verily, I
say, that for him all things now are come to pass, even as
I told him, what time the Argives embarked for Ilios, and
with them went the wise Odysseus. I said that after sore
affliction, with the loss of all his company, unknown to
all, in the twentieth year he should come home. And behold,
all these things now have an end.'

And Eurymachus, son of Polybus, answered him, saying: 'Go
now, old man, get thee home and prophesy to thine own
children, lest haply they suffer harm hereafter: but herein
am I a far better prophet than thou. Howbeit there be many
birds that fly to and fro under the sun's rays, but all are
not birds of fate. Now as for Odysseus, he hath perished
far away, as would that thou too with him hadst been cut
off: so wouldst thou not have babbled thus much prophecy,
nor wouldst thou hound on Telemachus that is already
angered, expecting a gift for thy house, if perchance he
may vouchsafe thee aught. But now will I speak out, and my
word shall surely be accomplished. If thou that knowest
much lore from of old, shalt beguile with words a younger
man, and rouse him to indignation, first it shall be a
great grief to him:--and yet he can count on no aid from
these who hear him;--while upon thee, old man, we will lay
a fine, that thou mayest pay it and chafe at heart, and
sore pain shall be thine. And I myself will give a word of
counsel to Telemachus in presence of you all. Let him
command his mother to return to her father's house; and her
kinsfolk will furnish a wedding feast, and array the gifts
of wooing, exceeding many, all that should go back with a
daughter dearly beloved. For ere that, I trow, we sons of
the Achaeans will not cease from our rough wooing, since,
come what may, we fear not any man, no, not Telemachus,
full of words though he be, nor soothsaying do we heed,
whereof thou, old man, pratest idly, and art hated yet the
more. His substance too shall be woefully devoured, nor
shall recompense ever be made, so long as she shall put off
the Achaeans in the matter of her marriage; while we in
expectation, from day to day, vie one with another for the
prize of her perfection, nor go we after other women whom
it were meet that we should each one wed.'

Then wise Telemachus answered him saying: 'Eurymachus, and
ye others, that are lordly wooers, I entreat you no more
concerning this nor speak thereof, for the gods have
knowledge of it now and all the Achaeans. But come, give me
a swift ship and twenty men, who shall accomplish for me my
voyage to and fro. For I will go to Sparta and to sandy
Pylos to inquire concerning the return of my father that is
long afar, if perchance any man shall tell me aught, or if
I may hear the voice from Zeus, that chiefly brings tidings
to men. If I shall hear news of the life and the returning
of my father, then verily I may endure the wasting for yet
a year; but if I shall hear that he is dead and gone, let
me then return to my own dear country, and pile his mound,
and over it pay burial rites full many as is due, and I
will give my mother to a husband.'

So with that word he sat him down; then in the midst uprose
Mentor, the companion of noble Odysseus. He it was to whom
Odysseus, as he departed in the fleet, had given the charge
over all his house, that it should obey the old man, and
that he should keep all things safe. With good will he now
made harangue and spake among them:

'Hearken to me now, ye men of Ithaca, to the word that I
shall say. Henceforth let not any sceptred king be kind and
gentle with all his heart, nor minded to do righteously,
but let him alway be a hard man and work unrighteousness:
for behold, there is none that remembereth divine Odysseus
of the people whose lord he was, and was gentle as a
father. Howsoever, it is not that I grudge the lordly
wooers their deeds of violence in the evil devices of their
heart. For at the hazard of their own heads they violently
devour the household of Odysseus, and say of him that he
will come no more again. But I am indeed wroth with the
rest of the people, to see how ye all sit thus speechless,
and do not cry shame upon the wooers, and put them down, ye
that are so many and they so few.'

And Leocritus, son of Euenor, answered him, saying: 'Mentor
infatuate, with thy wandering wits, what word hast thou
spoken, that callest upon them to put us down? Nay, it is a
hard thing to fight about a feast, and that with men who
are even more in number than you. Though Odysseus of Ithaca
himself should come and were eager of heart to drive forth
from the hall the lordly wooers that feast throughout his
house, yet should his wife have no joy of his coming,
though she yearns for him;--but even there should he meet
foul doom, if he fought with those that outnumbered him; so
thou hast not spoken aright. But as for the people, come
now, scatter yourselves each one to his own lands, but
Mentor and Halitherses will speed this man's voyage, for
they are friends of his house from of old. Yet after all,
methinks, that long time he will abide and seek tidings in
Ithaca, and never accomplish this voyage.'

Thus he spake, and in haste they broke up the assembly. So
they were scattered each one to his own dwelling, while the
wooers departed to the house of divine Odysseus.

Then Telemachus, going far apart to the shore of the sea,
laved his hands in the grey sea water, and prayed unto
Athene, saying: 'Hear me, thou who yesterday didst come in
thy godhead to our house, and badest me go in a ship across
the misty seas, to seek tidings of the return of my father
that is long gone: but all this my purpose do the Achaeans
delay, and mainly the wooers in the naughtiness of their
pride.'

So spake he in prayer, and Athene drew nigh him in the
likeness of Mentor, in fashion and in voice, and she spake
and hailed him in winged words:

'Telemachus, even hereafter thou shalt not be craven or
witless, if indeed thou hast a drop of thy father's blood
and a portion of his spirit; such an one was he to fulfil
both word and work. Nor, if this be so, shall thy voyage be
vain or unfulfilled. But if thou art not the very seed of
him and of Penelope, then have I no hope that thou wilt
accomplish thy desire. For few children, truly, are like
their father; lo, the more part are worse, yet a few are
better than the sire. But since thou shalt not even
hereafter be craven or witless, nor hath the wisdom of
Odysseus failed thee quite, so is there good hope of thine
accomplishing this work. Wherefore now take no heed of the
counsel or the purpose of the senseless wooers, for they
are in no way wise or just: neither know they aught of
death and of black fate, which already is close upon them,
that they are all to perish in one day. But the voyage on
which thy heart is set shall not long be lacking to
thee--so faithful a friend of thy father am I, who will
furnish thee a swift ship and myself be thy companion. But
go thou to the house, and consort with the wooers, and make
ready corn, and bestow all in vessels, the wine in jars and
barley-flour, the marrow of men, in well-sewn skins; and I
will lightly gather in the township a crew that offer
themselves willingly. There are many ships, new and old, in
seagirt Ithaca; of these I will choose out the best for
thee, and we will quickly rig her and launch her on the
broad deep.'

So spake Athene, daughter of Zeus, and Telemachus made no
long tarrying, when he had heard the voice of the goddess.
He went on his way towards the house, heavy at heart, and
there he found the noble wooers in the halls, flaying goats
and singeing swine in the court. And Antinous laughed out
and went straight to Telemachus, and clasped his hand and
spake and hailed him:

'Telemachus, proud of speech and unrestrained in fury, let
no evil word any more be in thy heart, nor evil work, but
let me see thee eat and drink as of old. And the Achaeans
will make thee ready all things without fail, a ship and
chosen oarsmen, that thou mayest come the quicker to fair
Pylos, to seek tidings of thy noble father.'

Then wise Telemachus answered him, saying, 'Antinous, in no
wise in your proud company can I sup in peace, and make
merry with a quiet mind. Is it a little thing, ye wooers,
that in time past ye wasted many good things of my getting,
while as yet I was a child? But now that I am a man grown,
and learn the story from the lips of others, and my spirit
waxeth within me, I will seek to let loose upon you evil
fates, as I may, going either to Pylos for help, or abiding
here in this township. Yea, I will go, nor vain shall the
voyage be whereof I speak; a passenger on another's ship go
I, for I am not to have a ship nor oarsmen of mine own; so
in your wisdom ye have thought it for the better.'

He spake and snatched his hand from out the hand of
Antinous, lightly, and all the while the wooers were busy
feasting through the house; and they mocked him and sharply
taunted him, and thus would some proud youth speak:

'In very truth Telemachus planneth our destruction. He will
bring a rescue either from sandy Pylos, or even it may be
from Sparta, so terribly is he set on slaying us. Or else
he will go to Ephyra, a fruitful land, to fetch a poisonous
drug that he may cast it into the bowl and make an end of
all of us.'

And again another proud youth would say: 'Who knows but
that he himself if he goes hence on the hollow ship, may
perish wandering far from his friends, even as Odysseus? So
should we have yet more ado, for then must we divide among
us all his substance, and moreover give the house to his
mother to possess it, and to him whosoever should wed her.'

So spake they; but he stepped down into the vaulted
treasure-chamber of his father, a spacious room, where gold
and bronze lay piled, and raiment in coffers, and fragrant
olive oil in plenty. And there stood casks of sweet wine
and old, full of the unmixed drink divine, all orderly
ranged by the wall, ready if ever Odysseus should come
home, albeit after travail and much pain. And the
close-fitted doors, the folding doors, were shut, and night
and day there abode within a dame in charge, who guarded
all in the fulness of her wisdom, Eurycleia, daughter of
Ops son of Peisenor. Telemachus now called her into the
chamber and spake unto her, saying:

'Mother, come draw off for me sweet wine in jars, the
choicest next to that thou keepest mindful ever of that
ill-fated one, Odysseus, of the seed of Zeus, if perchance
he may come I know not whence, having avoided death and the
fates. So fill twelve jars, and close each with his lid,
and pour me barley-meal into well-sewn skins, and let there
be twenty measures of the grain of bruised barley-meal. Let
none know this but thyself! As for these things let them
all be got together; for in the evening I will take them
with me, at the time that my mother hath gone to her upper
chamber and turned her thoughts to sleep. Lo, to Sparta I
go and to sandy Pylos to seek tidings of my dear father's
return, if haply I may hear thereof.'

So spake he, and the good nurse Eurycleia wailed aloud, and
making lament spake to him winged words: 'Ah, wherefore,
dear child, hath such a thought arisen in thine heart? How
shouldst thou fare over wide lands, thou that art an only
child and well-beloved? As for him he hath perished,
Odysseus of the seed of Zeus, far from his own country in
the land of strangers. And yonder men, so soon as thou art
gone, will devise mischief against thee thereafter, that
thou mayest perish by guile, and they will share among them
all this wealth of thine. Nay, abide here, settled on thine
own lands: thou hast no need upon the deep unharvested to
suffer evil and go wandering.'

Then wise Telemachus answered her, saying: 'Take heart,
nurse, for lo, this my purpose came not but of a god. But
swear to tell no word thereof to my dear mother, till at
least it shall be the eleventh or twelfth day from hence,
or till she miss me of herself, and hear of my departure,
that so she may not mar her fair face with her tears.'

Thus he spake, and the old woman sware a great oath by the
gods not to reveal it. But when she had sworn and done that
oath, straightway she drew off the wine for him in jars,
and poured barley-meal into well-sewn skins, and Telemachus
departed to the house and consorted with the wooers.

Then the goddess, grey-eyed Athene, turned to other
thoughts. In the likeness of Telemachus she went all
through the city, and stood by each one of the men and
spake her saying, and bade them gather at even by the swift
ship. Furthermore, she craved a swift ship of Noemon,
famous son of Phronius, and right gladly he promised it.

Now the sun sank and all the ways were darkened. Then at
length she let drag the swift ship to the sea and stored
within it all such tackling as decked ships carry. And she
moored it at the far end of the harbour and the good
company was gathered together, and the goddess cheered on
all.

Then the goddess, grey-eyed Athene, turned to other
thoughts. She went on her way to the house of divine
Odysseus; and there she shed sweet sleep upon the wooers
and made them distraught in their drinking, and cast the
cups from their hands. And they arose up to go to rest
throughout the city, nor sat they yet a long while, for
slumber was falling on their eyelids. Now grey eyed Athene
spake unto Telemachus, and called him from out the
fair-lying halls, taking the likeness of Mentor, both in
fashion and in voice:

'Telemachus, thy goodly-greaved companions are sitting
already at their oars, it is thy despatch they are
awaiting. Nay then, let us go, that we delay them not long
from the way.'

Therewith Pallas Athene led the way quickly, and he
followed hard in the steps of the goddess. Now when they
had come down to the ship and to the sea, they found the
long-haired youths of the company on the shore; and the
mighty prince Telemachus spake among them:

'Come hither, friends, let us carry the corn on board, for
all is now together in the room, and my mother knows nought
thereof, nor any of the maidens of the house: one woman
only heard my saying.'

Thus he spake and led the way, and they went with him. So
they brought all and stowed it in the decked ship,
according to the word of the dear son of Odysseus. Then
Telemachus climbed the ship, and Athene went before him,
and behold, she sat her down in the stern, and near her sat
Telemachus. And the men loosed the hawsers and climbed on
board themselves and sat down upon the benches. And
grey-eyed Athene sent them a favourable gale, a fresh West
Wind, singing over the wine-dark sea.

And Telemachus called unto his company and bade them lay
hands on the tackling, and they hearkened to his call. So
they raised the mast of pine tree and set it in the hole of
the cross plank, and made it fast with forestays, and
hauled up the white sails with twisted ropes of oxhide. And
the wind filled the belly of the sail, and the dark wave
seethed loudly round the stem of the running ship, and she
fleeted over the wave, accomplishing her path. Then they
made all fast in the swift black ship, and set mixing bowls
brimmed with wine, and poured drink offering to the
deathless gods that are from everlasting, and in chief to
the grey eyed daughter of Zeus. So all night long and
through the dawn the ship cleft her way.

