Text-Editor-Easy

Version 0.49.
Pure perl editor module and program. 12 demos in the program,
but still not usable : numerous bugs to work on, memory leaks to stop,
interface to complete, louds of documentation to write, ...

INSTALLATION

This module should be installable with the standard cpan command.

Anyway, it contains pure perl modules and programs.
So it shouldn't be hard to install it manually and run the demos.

It's compatible with Windows and UNIX. I use perl 5.10.0 on Windows
and perl 5.8.8 on Linux.

In order to install it manually to execute the demos,
save the archive file on your computer (tar.gz file).
Uncompress, untar...

Now install the following modules from where you should, according to
your system (you shoud already have most of them) :
        - Tk
        - Syntax::Highlight::Perl::Improved
        - Data::Dump
        - Time::HiRes
        - IO::File
        - File::Basename
        - Scalar::Util
        - Devel::Size
        - SDBM_File
        - Fcntl
        - File::Copy
        - File::Spec

Once finished, execute the "Editor.pl" program in the root directory. Don't
remove the tmp directory : it can be empty but the "Editor.pl" program
needs one.


SUPPORT AND DOCUMENTATION

Here are a few screen shots of what you should get when running the demos :
http://sgrommier.free.fr/perl/editor/

About test results on the cpan :
Most cpan machines have not Tk properly installed, and a lot of perl
distributions are not compiled with ithread. So most, of the time,
tests are skipped.

As this editor is in active development, support is not yet managed and
documentation should grow at each package upload.

The 'final' documentation will be in 3 places :
    - of course, in the modules as pod
    - I will try "pseudo-videos" runnable from the Editor.pl program
    - on the web : http://sgrommier.free.fr/perl/editor/. Compared to pod,
I can add pictures and translation.

In 'Text::Editor::Easy', Easy has been chosen because I want the plain interface
to be very easy. From a basic programmer point of view, it will be very clear
and easy to make a graphical perl text application with personnal highlighting.

But I really wanted this module to be programmer-oriented and in a new 'dynamic way' : 
the possibilities for a demanding programmer will be very elaborate and hardly found elsewhere.
And this is very demanding ... to me : I try to generalize things that I don't even use for
my 'Editor.pl' program, and I have to explain all these (surely useless) possibilities in 
the documentation. But I feel much better having done these generalizations, and 
sometimes I use them to simplify my own code where I hadn't thought it could have been 
useful...


COPYRIGHT AND LICENCE

Copyright (C) 2008 - 2009 Sebastien Grommier

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
