NAME
    Apache2::PPI::HTML - Apache 2 interface to PPI::HTML

DESCRIPTION
    PPI::HTML is a HTML syntax highlighter for Perl source code. Because it
    is based on PPI it can correctly parse just about anything you can
    possibly throw at it, and then flexibly generate a HTML version based on
    any arbitrary colour scheme you wish, or use a standalone CSS file for
    it's style information.

    This initial version is primarily intended to serve as a highlighting
    service to a AJAX-based syntax highlighter.

    The handler recieves a chunk of Perl source code from the browser in the
    CGI 'code' parameter, and a second 'ajax' param determines if the
    highlighter is running in AJAX mode.

    In AJAX mode, the fragment of formatted HTML is handed back straight up,
    without any surrounding body or headers or the other parts of the HTML
    wrapper.

    With AJAX mode off, it returns a complete HTML document.

    With this initial version, you may have some difficulties getting CSS
    actually working.

    We recommend you wait for the next release, which will support a range
    of pre-packaged colour schemes being created for PPI::HTML.

TO DO
    - Add support for PPI::HTML 0.06 colour schemes.

    - Add support for acting as a content filter.

    If you like the idea of this module, and would like to volunteer to help
    maintain or improve it, your assistance you be greatly welcomed.

    Inquiries via the PPI dicussion mailing list, located on the SourceForge
    website. <http://sourceforge.net/projects/parseperl>.

SUPPORT
    Bugs should be reported via the CPAN bug tracker at

    <http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/ReportBug.html?Queue=Apache2-PPI-HTML>

    For other issues, contact the author.

AUTHOR
    Adam Kennedy <adamk@cpan.org>

    Written by Pete Sergeant (in about 3 minutes) :)

COPYRIGHT
    Copyright 2005 - 2008 Pete Sergeant, Adam Kennedy.

    This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
    under the same terms as Perl itself.

    The full text of the license can be found in the LICENSE file included
    with this module.

