OpenOffice::OODoc installation (2010-01-06)

SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS

	Perl		>= 5.8.0
	Archive::Zip	>= 1.18
	XML::Twig	>= 3.32
	Time::Local	>= 1.07
	File::Temp	>= 0.12

INSTALLATION FROM THE CPAN DISTRIBUTION

	Uncompress the distribution archive, enter the OpenOffice-OODoc-x.xxx
	directory and (as system administrator), type the following commands:

		perl Makefile.PL [options]
		make test
		make install

	For MSWin32, "make" can be replaced by "nmake". If the Microsoft NMAKE
	utility is not present in your environment, you can get it at
	http://download.microsoft.com/download/vc15/Patch/1.52/W95/EN-US/Nmake15.exe
	
	If Archive::Zip and XML::Twig are already installed, this CPAN
	installation works without a C compiler, because OpenOffice::OODoc is
	pure Perl. Otherwise, if these required modules are not installed and
	if you don't have a C development environment, you should use another
	distribution (such as the PPM one for ActivePerl, if available) instead,
	knowing that the CPAN Archive::Zip and XML::Twig distributions can
	indirectly bring a lot of C source code.

	You will be prompted for the local character set (default = utf8), an
	optional color map (default = none), the working directory path
	(default = current directory of each application), and the default
	file format (OOo 1.0 or ODF, default = ODF). The defaults are convenient
	is most situations; however the following explanations could prove
	useful.
	
	The default local character set is 'utf8', but it may be anyone of the
	character sets supported by the Encode Perl module. The standard ODF
	internal character set is always utf8 but the OpenOffice::OODoc module
	transparently allows the applications to deal with the text content as
	if it was natively in their local, possibly non-utf8 character set. The
	appropriate transcoding is automatically provided, according to the
	declared local character set.
	
	The role of the optional color map file is to allow the programmer to
	use symbolic names instead of RGB values for color attributes, knowing
	that OpenOffice::OODoc allows the applications to specify color
	parameters in some situation (characters, backgrounds, shapes, borders,
	and so on). Each line of this configuration file, if provided, should
	have the following structure:
	
	        R G B name
	        
	where 'R', 'G' and 'B' are integer values in the 0-255 range for red,
	green and blue, and 'name' is an arbitrary symbolic name for the given
	RGB combination. Example:
	
	        135 206 235     SkyBlue
	
	The line above in the color map file allows the application programmer
	to use "SkyBlue" as a replacement for the [135,206,235] list with a
	color definition function. Such a file may be created by the user or
	borrowed to the environment. For example, the standard RGB file that is
	available in a typical X-Window or Xorg environment may be used as is or
	customized (this file is often located at /etc/X11/rgb.txt on Unix-like
	platforms, and it may be downloaded on any non-Unix platform).
	
	The choice of the working directory may be a sensitive choice in
	constrained environments and/or for long-running processes, while it's
	generally not an issue in a typical office environment. Each time a
	document is created or updated, OpenOffice::OODoc generates intermediate
	files which are automatically deleted after use (some of them can remain
	in case of crash only). The default path is ".", meaning that these
	intermediate files will be created in the current directory of each
	application; if needed, it may be replaced by any absolute or relative
	path. In distributed environments, it's recommended to specify a
	location in a local filesystem for performance reasons.

        For historical reasons, OpenOffice::OODoc supports both the primary
        OpenOffice.org 1.0 file format (now deprecated) and the present standard
        Open Document Format (ODF). By default, ODF is the preferred format,
        and it's strongly recommended to let this configuration parameter
        unchanged. The choice of a preferred format doesn't prevent the
        applications to process documents in the other format; the format that
        is declared as "preferred" will just be selected to create any new
        document, but OpenOffice::OODoc will not change the format of an
        existing document. Be careful: knowing that the legacy OpenOffice.org
        1.0 format is disappearing, it will not necessarily supported by future 
        versions of OpenOffice::OODoc. OpenOffice::OODoc currently supports
	ODF 1.0 to 1.2; however, it doesn't include any validating feature, so
	the users are not prevented from using its API to insert custom,
	non-standard XML constructs in the documents.

	- the preferred file format, to be used when you create a new
	document from scratch (answer "1" for OpenOffice.org, "2" for OASIS
	OpenDocument Format, default is "2").

	The interactivity can be avoided by the --noprompt option.
	The parameters can be provided at the command line with (respectively)
	the --encoding <encoding>, --colormap <file>, --workdir <path> and
	--format <number> options. Example:
	
	perl Makefile.PL --noprompt --workdir "C:\Temp" --encoding "cp1252"

	The full customization step can be avoided with the --noconfig option.
	If this option is used, all the default values are installed.
	
	These options define installation-level default values only; each of
	these values can be overridden by the applications (thanks, for
	example, to the odfLocalEncoding(), odfWorkingDirectory() and
	odfLoadColorMap() functions). The installation-level options are stored
	in a XML file (OODoc/config.xml) below the installation directory.
	This file can be manually edited at any time after the installation
	in order to change any parameter.
	
	A variable $OpenOffice::OODoc::INSTALLATION_DATE is available for the
	applications; it contains the installation date in ISO-8601 format.
	If the customization has been skipped (due to the --noconfig option),
	this variable contains the packaging date of the distribution.
	Caution, this value is significant if the installation has been done
	from the original CPAN distribution only.

	The date of the original CPAN package is provided by the variable
	$OpenOffice::OODoc::BUILD_DATE.

	If the installation is successful, the test procedure generates a
	document, writes some content in it, and checks the result. This
	document is named 'odftest.odt' or 'ootest.sxw' (according to your
	default file format) and resides in the working directory of the
	installation. You can later check this document with a compatible
	text processor or viewer.

	A Perl executable script, oodoc_version, is provided in the package.
	After a successful installation using the CPAN distribution,
	this script displays the version number, the package build date,
	and the installation path. A more sophisticated script, oodoc_test,
	is provided as an executable example; this script generates a document
	which may be checked using an ODF-compatible text processor. Be careful,
	while both oodoc_version and oodoc_test are provided in the original
	CPAN distribution, they are not necessarily available in any derived
	OpenOffice::OODoc package.
