The ideal test of the MegaDistro would be:

Packaging System Requirements:
	- Requires a valid installed perl distribution, from either the 5.6, or 5.8 branches or greater.
	- Requires CPANPLUS-0.0562 (configured), as well as, Module-CoreList-2.02 .

	The person creating the distributable binary would simply:

		1. Download the current MegaDistro distribution
		2. Run the system (with/without options)
		(Optionally)* Specify version of perl
		(Optionally)* Specify distro type
		3. (if everything succeeds) A distribution-specific binary
                   will be created (e.g. megadistro-0.20.i386.rpm)


The outline of the internal processes of the system are as follows:

	(when the system is initally run) <Step 2 - Above>
	1. Read in configuration file (contains preset defaults)
	2. Download all modules in module list
	3. Unpack each module
	4. Compile each module
	5. Test each module
	6. If the test was a success then the finished product is -
           placed in a directory to be flagged for packaging later
	7. Dynamically, automatically generate a package spec/ruleset - 
           file for the  packagin system
	8. SUCCESS! (distribution specific binary successfully built)


The end result, being a platform-specific distributable binary; for example, 
an ideal target that would benefit from this system would be an ISP, who would,
instead of receiving a tons of frequent requests from their clients to install 
many modules, can simply install the 'perl-megadistro.rpm', for their specific 
distribution - hence, in this example, thus increasing the ISP's efficiency via 
a simplistic method to install useful modules that their customers will want.

Ideally, the 'MegaDistro [packager] system' will be maintained via 
(a distribution-specific configuration file, as well as,)*** a module list.

	(The distribution-specific configuration file, will contain version-specific, 
	distribution-specific configuration values and settings, used in creating a binary; 
	for example, whether the person packaging the distributable binary, wishes to package 
	it using version 5.6.X or 5.8.X, and for what distribution/platform, debian, redhat, et al.)***

	The module list, will contain a list of modules to packaged with perl to build the end-result, 
	'megadistro binary'.
	(Option: Have multiple lists/versions of this list, distributed with the packaging system, 
		 for specific builds; e.g. a www, database, or java module list)




* : Optional - If not explicitly specified, the system will default to, 
    your current/newest working version of perl, and whatever your default 
    distribution package type is (e.g. if you're on redhat, it will, 
    by default, make an rpm; if you're on debian, it will make a deb pkg).
    
** : Current setup of the packaging system mandates that the packager have
     root access; sudo access would be possible eventually, 
     but is not currently [fully] supported.
     
*** : The current plan for the megadistro system may make this 
      feature/requirepment optional or completely unnecessary.
