NAME
    CPANTS::Weight - Graph based weights for CPAN Distributions

DESCRIPTION
    "CPAN::Weight" is a module that consumes the CPANTS database, and
    generates a variety of graph-based weighting values for the
    distributions, producing a SQLite database of the weighting data, for
    use in higher-level applications that work with the CPANTS data.

METHODS
  run
      CPANTS::Weight->run;

    The main "run" method does a complete generation cycle for the CPANTS
    weighting database. It will retrieve the CPANTS data (if needed)
    calculate the weights, and then (re)populate the CPANTS-Weight.sqlite
    database.

    Once completed, the "CPANTS::Weight->sqlite" method can be used to
    locate the completed SQLite database file.

  dsn
      my $string = Foo::Bar->dsn;

    The "dsn" accessor returns the dbi connection string used to connect to
    the SQLite database as a string.

  dbh
      my $handle = Foo::Bar->dbh;

    To reliably prevent potential SQLite deadlocks resulting from multiple
    connections in a single process, each ORLite package will only ever
    maintain a single connection to the database.

    During a transaction, this will be the same (cached) database handle.

    Although in most situations you should not need a direct DBI connection
    handle, the "dbh" method provides a method for getting a direct
    connection in a way that is compatible with ORLite's connection
    management.

    Please note that these connections should be short-lived, you should
    never hold onto a connection beyond the immediate scope.

    The transaction system in ORLite is specifically designed so that code
    using the database should never have to know whether or not it is in a
    transation.

    Because of this, you should never call the ->disconnect method on the
    database handles yourself, as the handle may be that of a currently
    running transaction.

    Further, you should do your own transaction management on a handle
    provided by the <dbh> method.

    In cases where there are extreme needs, and you absolutely have to
    violate these connection handling rules, you should create your own
    completely manual DBI->connect call to the database, using the connect
    string provided by the "dsn" method.

    The "dbh" method returns a DBI::db object, or throws an exception on
    error.

  begin
      Foo::Bar->begin;

    The "begin" method indicates the start of a transaction.

    In the same way that ORLite allows only a single connection, likewise it
    allows only a single application-wide transaction.

    No indication is given as to whether you are currently in a transaction
    or not, all code should be written neutrally so that it works either way
    or doesn't need to care.

    Returns true or throws an exception on error.

  commit
      Foo::Bar->commit;

    The "commit" method commits the current transaction. If called outside
    of a current transaction, it is accepted and treated as a null
    operation.

    Once the commit has been completed, the database connection falls back
    into auto-commit state. If you wish to immediately start another
    transaction, you will need to issue a separate ->begin call.

    Returns true or throws an exception on error.

  rollback
    The "rollback" method rolls back the current transaction. If called
    outside of a current transaction, it is accepted and treated as a null
    operation.

    Once the rollback has been completed, the database connection falls back
    into auto-commit state. If you wish to immediately start another
    transaction, you will need to issue a separate ->begin call.

    If a transaction exists at END-time as the process exits, it will be
    automatically rolled back.

    Returns true or throws an exception on error.

  do
      Foo::Bar->do('insert into table (foo, bar) values (?, ?)', {},
          $foo_value,
          $bar_value,
      );

    The "do" method is a direct wrapper around the equivalent DBI method,
    but applied to the appropriate locally-provided connection or
    transaction.

    It takes the same parameters and has the same return values and error
    behaviour.

  selectall_arrayref
    The "selectall_arrayref" method is a direct wrapper around the
    equivalent DBI method, but applied to the appropriate locally-provided
    connection or transaction.

    It takes the same parameters and has the same return values and error
    behaviour.

  selectall_hashref
    The "selectall_hashref" method is a direct wrapper around the equivalent
    DBI method, but applied to the appropriate locally-provided connection
    or transaction.

    It takes the same parameters and has the same return values and error
    behaviour.

  selectcol_arrayref
    The "selectcol_arrayref" method is a direct wrapper around the
    equivalent DBI method, but applied to the appropriate locally-provided
    connection or transaction.

    It takes the same parameters and has the same return values and error
    behaviour.

  selectrow_array
    The "selectrow_array" method is a direct wrapper around the equivalent
    DBI method, but applied to the appropriate locally-provided connection
    or transaction.

    It takes the same parameters and has the same return values and error
    behaviour.

  selectrow_arrayref
    The "selectrow_arrayref" method is a direct wrapper around the
    equivalent DBI method, but applied to the appropriate locally-provided
    connection or transaction.

    It takes the same parameters and has the same return values and error
    behaviour.

  selectrow_hashref
    The "selectrow_hashref" method is a direct wrapper around the equivalent
    DBI method, but applied to the appropriate locally-provided connection
    or transaction.

    It takes the same parameters and has the same return values and error
    behaviour.

  prepare
    The "prepare" method is a direct wrapper around the equivalent DBI
    method, but applied to the appropriate locally-provided connection or
    transaction

    It takes the same parameters and has the same return values and error
    behaviour.

    In general though, you should try to avoid the use of your own prepared
    statements if possible, although this is only a recommendation and by no
    means prohibited.

  pragma
      # Get the user_version for the schema
      my $version = Foo::Bar->pragma('user_version');

    The "pragma" method provides a convenient method for fetching a pragma
    for a datase. See the SQLite documentation for more details.

SUPPORT
    Bugs should be reported via the CPAN bug tracker at

    <http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/ReportBug.html?Queue=CPANTS-Weight>

    For other issues, contact the author.

AUTHOR
    Adam Kennedy <adamk@cpan.org>

COPYRIGHT
    Copyright 2009 Adam Kennedy.

    This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
    under the same terms as Perl itself.

    The full text of the license can be found in the LICENSE file included
    with this module.

