What is quizzer?
----------------

Quizzer is a system for computer aided exercise presentation to students.
It is based on Joey Hess's great Debconf package that has very good 
template management.

What is a quiz?
---------------

A quiz is a file containing a set of questions that the user has to answer.
Questions are represented by structured templates. A quiz file can contain
virtually any number of question. Templates must be defined with an easy
to understand syntax.

How to write exercises (quizzes)?
---------------------------------

The syntax of quizzes is very simple. This is an example quiz:

---> cut here <---
Template: quiz/domanda1
Type: select
Choices: ls -l, ls -w, ls
Level: low
Description: Quale di questi comandi mostra gli attributi estesi di un file?
Answer: ls -l
---> cut here <---

Let's see every element in detail:

1) For every quiz you have to define the Template
attribute, that is the template category and name:

Template: quiz/domanda1

All question must have a template category of "quiz" and a template name of
domanda(n) where n is a progressive number.

* IMPORTANT: "quiz" and "domanda(n)" are values HARDCODED in the program, 
so, unless you modify the program, you have to use those words for the 
template name.

2) You have to define the type of the question:

Type: select

that is what kind of alternatives you offer to the people who will try the 
quiz. Valid alternatives can be: String, select, multiselect, boolean ...

3) If there are multiple alternatives you can list them in a choices field
separated by commas:

Choices: ls -l, ls -w, ls

4) The level field identifies the difficulty of the question. It can be
low, medium, high and critical. 

Level: low

5) The description field is the question itself:

Description: Quale di questi comandi mostra gli attributi estesi di un file?

6) The answer field is the correct answer:

Answer: ls -l

Multilingual features
---------------------

Quizzes can be defined in a multilingual fashion by appending the language
suffix to the "description" attribute of the template. Es.

Description: Quale di questi comandi mostra gli attributi estesi di un file?
Description-de: xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx

If a description-(lang) is missing for some question, Quizzer will use the 
standard "description" value.
