NAME
    Attribute::Method::Tags - Attribute interface for adding tags to
    methods.

SYNOPSIS
     package Bleh;

     # using Attribute::Method::Tags will add to callers ISA
     use Attribute::Method::Tags;

     sub foo : Tags( quick fast loose ) {
         ...
     }

     sub bar : Tags( quick ) {
         ...
     }

     # can use Attribute::Method::Tags::Registry to query tags on all classes.

DESCRIPTION
    This class permits adding arbitrary tags to methods, via an attribute
    interface. The tags can later be queried via the
    Attribute::Method::Tags::Registry class.

    Note that since attributes only work via inheritance, 'use'ing this
    class will add it to the @ISA of the composing class.

ATTRIBUTES
    The only usage of this class is through the 'Tags' attribute against
    subs. A list of arbitrary alphanumeric tags can be given as parameters,
    seperated by whitespace. Each of the tags will be added to the registry
    contained in Attribute::Method::Tags::Registry, and can be queried via
    that class.

CAVEATS
    As attributes are handled at compilation time, actions such as requiring
    classes or eval'ing code during runtime won't play well when used with
    attributes. This can be gotten around by doing such actions with a BEGIN
    block. If this isn't possible, a workaround is to define your dynamic
    methods without any attributes, the use
    Attribute::Method::Tags::Registry 'add' method to explicitly tag the
    method.

SEE ALSO
    Attributes::Method::Tags::Registry
        Registry class, that permits querying of all tags across all
        packages/methods.

    Test::Class::Filter::Tags
        The original impetus for this module. Permits specifying tags on
        test methods, and then running only a subset of tests, matching a
        given tag list.

AUTHOR
    Mark Morgan <makk384@gmail.com>

BUGS
    Please send bugs or feature requests through to
    bugs-Attribute-Method-Tags@rt.rt.cpan.org or through web interface
    <http://rt.cpan.org> .

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
    Copyright 2010 Mark Morgan, All Rights Reserved.

    This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
    under the same terms as Perl itself.

