                              Net::Duo 1.02
             (API for Duo multifactor authentication service)
                Maintained by Russ Allbery <rra@cpan.org>

  Copyright 2015, 2018-2019 Russ Allbery <rra@cpan.org>.  Copyright 2014
  The Board of Trustees of the Leland Stanford Junior University.  This
  software is distributed under a BSD-style license.  Please see the
  section LICENSE below for more information.

WARNING

  This package is orphaned.  You should use the Perl code provided by Duo
  instead, since it will be more up-to-date with current features.  I no
  longer maintain a large Duo deployment, and my current company uses
  Python instead.  That said, I do still think this package provides a
  nicer object framework for the Duo API in Perl; if you agree, please
  feel free to adopt it and maintain it!

BLURB

  Net::Duo provides an object-oriented Perl interface for the Duo Security
  REST APIs.  It attempts to abstract some of the API details and provide
  an object-oriented view of the returned objects in order to make use of
  the API in Perl code more natural than dealing with JSON data structures
  directly.  Currently, some parts of the Auth and Admin APIs are
  implemented alongside with generic methods to call any of the JSON-based
  APIs.

DESCRIPTION

  Duo Security [1] is a cloud second-factor authentication service that
  supports a wide variety of different mechanisms for a user to establish
  a second authentication factor.  It is intended to supplement local
  authentication systems, such as password-based authentication, with an
  unrelated second factor: possession of a device, or access to a phone.
  Duo Security provides direct integration with a variety of applications
  and a self-service web sign-up interface, but for more control, it also
  provides several RESTful APIs that can perform all possible actions on
  Duo accounts, users, and their devices.

  [1] https://duosecurity.com/

  This module implements a client for the Duo REST APIs.  It differs from
  the sample Perl implementation provided by Duo in that it attempts to
  wrap the Duo data model and JSON information in Perl objects and provide
  logical and convenient methods on those objects to make writing Perl
  clients of Duo simpler and easier.  It tries to abstract portions of the
  API, such as the endpoint URLs, that allow for more natural and less
  cluttered Perl code than manipulating the JSON data structures directly.

  The API implementation is currently incomplete and contains just the
  calls required by Stanford's integration.  Only the Auth and Admin APIs
  are implemented, and both are partial.  However, the Net::Duo call,
  call_json, and call_json_paged methods can be used to make calls to APIs
  that aren't fully implemented.

REQUIREMENTS

  Perl 5.14 or later and Module::Build 0.28 or later are required to build
  this module.  The following additional Perl modules are required to use
  it:

  * JSON
  * HTTP::Message
  * LWP::UserAgent 6.00 or later (part of libwww-perl)
  * Perl6::Slurp
  * Sub::Install
  * URI::Escape (part of URI)

  All are available on CPAN.

BUILDING AND INSTALLATION

  Net::Duo uses Module::Build and can be installed using the same process
  as any other Module::Build module:

      perl Build.PL
      ./Build
      ./Build install

  You will have to run the last command as root unless you're installing
  into a local Perl module tree in your home directory.

TESTING

  Net::Duo comes with a test suite, which you can run after building with:

      ./Build test

  If a test fails, you can run a single test with verbose output via:

      ./Build test --test_files <path-to-test>

  The following additional Perl modules will be used by the test suite if
  present:

  * Test::MinimumVersion
  * Test::Perl::Critic
  * Test::Pod
  * Test::Pod::Coverage
  * Test::Spelling
  * Test::Strict
  * Test::Synopsis

  All are available on CPAN.  Those tests will be skipped if the modules
  are not available.

  To enable tests that don't detect functionality problems but are used to
  sanity-check the release, set the environment variable RELEASE_TESTING
  to a true value.  To enable tests that may be sensitive to the local
  environment or that produce a lot of false positives without uncovering
  many problems, set the environment variable AUTHOR_TESTING to a true
  value.

SUPPORT

  The Net::Duo web page at:

      https://www.eyrie.org/~eagle/software/net-duo/

  will always have the current version of this package, the current
  documentation, and pointers to any additional resources.

  For bug tracking, use the CPAN bug tracker at:

      https://rt.cpan.org/Dist/Display.html?Name=Net-Duo

  However, please be aware that I tend to be extremely busy and work
  projects often take priority.  I'll save your report and get to it as
  soon as I can, but it may take me a couple of months.

SOURCE REPOSITORY

  Net::Duo is maintained using Git.  You can access the current source on
  GitHub at:

      https://github.com/rra/net-duo

  or by cloning the repository at:

      https://git.eyrie.org/git/perl/net-duo.git

  or view the repository via the web at:

      https://git.eyrie.org/?p=perl/net-duo.git

  The eyrie.org repository is the canonical one, maintained by the author,
  but using GitHub is probably more convenient for most purposes.  Pull
  requests are gratefully reviewed and normally accepted.  It's probably
  better to use the CPAN bug tracker than GitHub issues, though, to keep
  all Perl module issues in the same place.

LICENSE

  The Net::Duo package as a whole is covered by the following copyright
  statement and license:

    Copyright 2015, 2018-2019 Russ Allbery <rra@cpan.org>
    Copyright 2014
        The Board of Trustees of the Leland Stanford Junior University

    Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
    a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
    "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
    without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
    distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
    permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
    the following conditions:

    The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
    included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

    THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
    EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
    MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
    IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
    CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
    TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
    SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

  Some files in this distribution are individually released under
  different licenses, all of which are compatible with the above general
  package license but which may require preservation of additional
  notices.  All required notices, and detailed information about the
  licensing of each file, are recorded in the LICENSE file.

  Files covered by a license with an assigned SPDX License Identifier
  include SPDX-License-Identifier tags to enable automated processing of
  license information.  See https://spdx.org/licenses/ for more
  information.

  For any copyright range specified by files in this package as YYYY-ZZZZ,
  the range specifies every single year in that closed interval.
