NAME

    Dist::Zilla::Plugin::AlienBuild - Use Alien::Build with Dist::Zilla

VERSION

    version 0.26

SYNOPSIS

     [AlienBuild]

DESCRIPTION

    This Dist::Zilla plugin is designed to help create Alien modules using
    the alienfile and Alien::Build recipe system with Alien::Base. The
    intent is that you will maintain your alienfile as you normally would,
    and this plugin will ensure the right prereqs are specified in the
    META.json and other things that are easy to get not quite right.

    Specifically, this plugin:

    adds prereqs

      Adds the configure requirements to your dist configure requires. It
      adds the any requirements from your alienfile to your dist build
      requires.

    adjusts Makefile.PL

      Adjusts your Makefile.PL to use Alien::Build::MM. If you are using
      ExtUtils::MakeMaker.

    sets the mb_class for Build.PL

      sets mb_class to Alien::Build::MB on the
      Dist::Zilla::Plugin::ModuleBuild plugin. If you are using
      Module::Build.

    turn on dynamic prereqs

      Which are used by most Alien::Build based Alien distributions.

    sets x_alienfile meta

      Unless you turn this feature off using alienfile_meta below.

PROPERTIES

 alienfile_meta

    As of version 0.23, this plugin adds a special x_alienfile metadata to
    your META.json or META.yml. This contains the share and system prereqs
    based on your alienfile. This may be useful for one day searching for
    Aliens which use another specific Alien during their build. Note that
    by their nature, share and system prereqs are dynamic, so on some
    platforms they may actually be different.

    This is on by default. You can turn this off by setting this property
    to 0.

SEE ALSO

    Alien::Build, alienfile, Alien::Base, Alien::Build::MM,
    Alien::Build::MB, Dist::Zilla::Plugin::AlienBase::Doc

AUTHOR

    Graham Ollis <plicease@cpan.org>

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

    This software is copyright (c) 2017 by Graham Ollis.

    This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
    the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

