                           Term::ANSIColor 5.01
               (simple ANSI text attribute control module)
                Maintained by Russ Allbery <rra@cpan.org>

  Copyright 1996-1998, 2000-2002, 2005-2006, 2008-2020 Russ Allbery
  <rra@cpan.org>.  Copyright 1996 Zenin.  Copyright 2012 Kurt Starsinic
  <kstarsinic@gmail.com>.  This software is distributed under the same
  terms as Perl itself.  Please see the section LICENSE below for more
  information.

BLURB

  Term::ANSIColor provides constants and simple functions for setting ANSI
  text attributes, most notably colors.  It can be used to set the current
  text attributes or to apply a set of attributes to a string and reset
  the current text attributes at the end of that string.  Eight-color,
  sixteen-color, 256-color, and true color (24-bit color) escape sequences
  are all supported.

DESCRIPTION

  This Perl module is a simple and convenient interface to the ANSI
  terminal escape sequences for color (from ECMA-48, also included in ISO
  6429).  The color sequences are provided in two forms, either as
  constants for each color or via a function that takes the names of
  colors and returns the appropriate escape codes or wraps them around the
  provided text.  The non-color text style codes from ANSI X3.64 (bold,
  dark, underline, and reverse, for example), which were also included in
  ECMA-48 and ISO 6429, are also supported.  Also supported are the
  extended colors used for sixteen-color and 256-color emulators.

  This module is very stable, and I've used it in a wide variety of
  applications.  It has been included in the core Perl distribution
  starting with version 5.6.0, so you don't need to download and install
  it yourself unless you have an old version of Perl or need a newer
  version of the module than comes with your version of Perl.  I continue
  to maintain it as a separate module, and the version included in Perl is
  resynced with mine before each release.

  The original module came out of a discussion in comp.lang.perl.misc and
  is a combination of two approaches, one with constants by Zenin and one
  with functions that I wrote.  I offered to maintain a combined module
  that included both approaches.

REQUIREMENTS

  Term::ANSIColor is written in pure Perl and has no module dependencies
  that aren't found in Perl core.  It should work with any version of Perl
  after 5.8.

  In order to see color, you will need to use a terminal window that
  supports the ANSI escape sequences for color.  Any recent version of
  xterm, most xterm derivatives and replacements, and most telnet and SSH
  clients for Windows and Macintosh should work, as will the MacOS X
  Terminal application (although Terminal.app reportedly doesn't support
  256 colors).  The console windows for Windows NT and Windows 2000 will
  not work, as they do not even attempt to support ANSI X3.64.

  For a terminal emulator compatibility list, see the Term::ANSIColor
  module documentation.  If you have any additions to the table in the
  documentation, please send them to me.

  The following additional Perl modules will be used by the test suite if
  present:

  * Devel::Cover
  * Test::MinimumVersion
  * Test::Perl::Critic
  * Test::Pod
  * Test::Pod::Coverage
  * Test::Spelling
  * Test::Strict
  * Test::Synopsis
  * Test::Warn

  All are available on CPAN.  Those tests will be skipped if the modules
  are not available.

BUILDING AND INSTALLATION

  Term::ANSIColor uses ExtUtils::MakeMaker and can be installed using the
  same process as any other ExtUtils::MakeMaker module:

      perl Makefile.PL
      make
      make install

  You will have to run the last command as root unless you're installing
  into a local Perl module tree in your home directory.

TESTING

  Term::ANSIColor comes with a test suite, which you can run after
  building with:

      make test

  If a test fails, you can run a single test with verbose output via:

      prove -vb <path-to-test>

  To enable tests that don't detect functionality problems but are used to
  sanity-check the release, set the environment variable RELEASE_TESTING
  to a true value.  To enable tests that may be sensitive to the local
  environment or that produce a lot of false positives without uncovering
  many problems, set the environment variable AUTHOR_TESTING to a true
  value.

SUPPORT

  The Term::ANSIColor web page at:

      https://www.eyrie.org/~eagle/software/ansicolor/

  will always have the current version of this package, the current
  documentation, and pointers to any additional resources.

  For bug tracking, use the CPAN bug tracker at:

      https://rt.cpan.org/Dist/Display.html?Name=Term-ANSIColor

  However, please be aware that I tend to be extremely busy and work
  projects often take priority.  I'll save your report and get to it as
  soon as I can, but it may take me a couple of months.

SOURCE REPOSITORY

  Term::ANSIColor is maintained using Git.  You can access the current
  source on GitHub at:

      https://github.com/rra/ansicolor

  or by cloning the repository at:

      https://git.eyrie.org/git/perl/ansicolor.git

  or view the repository via the web at:

      https://git.eyrie.org/?p=perl/ansicolor.git

  The eyrie.org repository is the canonical one, maintained by the author,
  but using GitHub is probably more convenient for most purposes.  Pull
  requests are gratefully reviewed and normally accepted.  It's probably
  better to use the CPAN bug tracker than GitHub issues, though, to keep
  all Perl module issues in the same place.

LICENSE

  The Term::ANSIColor package as a whole is covered by the following
  copyright statement and license:

    Copyright 1996-1998, 2000-2002, 2005-2006, 2008-2020
        Russ Allbery <rra@cpan.org>
    Copyright 1996 Zenin
    Copyright 2012 Kurt Starsinic <kstarsinic@gmail.com>

    This program is free software; you may redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the same terms as Perl itself.  This means that you may
    choose between the two licenses that Perl is released under: the GNU
    GPL and the Artistic License.  Please see your Perl distribution for
    the details and copies of the licenses.

    PUSH/POP support submitted 2007 by openmethods.com voice solutions

  Some files in this distribution are individually released under
  different licenses, all of which are compatible with the above general
  package license but which may require preservation of additional
  notices.  All required notices, and detailed information about the
  licensing of each file, are recorded in the LICENSE file.

  Files covered by a license with an assigned SPDX License Identifier
  include SPDX-License-Identifier tags to enable automated processing of
  license information.  See https://spdx.org/licenses/ for more
  information.

  For any copyright range specified by files in this package as YYYY-ZZZZ,
  the range specifies every single year in that closed interval.
