
                      Template Toolkit LaTeX Plugin

                             Version 3.09

                            09 July 2016

        Copyright (C) 2014-2016 Chris Travers. All Rights Reserved.
        Copyright (C) 2006-2014 Andrew Ford.   All Rights Reserved
        Copyright (C) 1996-2007 Andy Wardley.  All Rights Reserved

          This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
             modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.


DESCRIPTION
-----------

The Template Toolkit is a collection of modules which implement a
fast, flexible, powerful and extensible template processing system.
The LaTeX plugin provides the facility to filter content through
LaTeX, provided of course that the content is valid LaTeX source.  

The LaTeX plugin takes care of running and re-running latex so that
forward references, tables of contents, and lists of figures and
tables are resolved.  It will also run bibtex and makeindex if it
detects that a bibliography or in index have been specified, and will
re-run latex again one or more times until the formatting of the
document has stabilized.  (This functionality is new in version 3.00
of the module.)



QUICK START
-----------

The latest version of the Template Toolkit LaTeX Plugin can be
retrieved from:

    http://www.cpan.org/modules/by-module/Template-Latex/

Fetch and install Template Toolkit (2.16 or newer) if you don't
already have it installed.  Available from CPAN in:

    http://www.cpan.org/authors/Andy_Wardley/

To install the Template Toolkit Latex Plugin:

    tar zxf Template-Latex-3.00_05.tar.gz
    cd Template-Latex-3.00_05
    perl Makefile.PL
    make
    make test
    make install    

The Makefile.PL will prompt for additional configuration options,
including the installation of optional template libraries, HTML
documentation and examples.  You can safely answer 'n' to all of these
questions for a quick and basic installation.  

If you're running ActivePerl on a Win32 platform then you can use the
Perl Package Manager (PPM) to install the Template Toolkit.  Chris
Winters maintains a repository of pre-compiled PPM packages which contains
the Template Toolkit, AppConfig and others.  For further information, see:

    http://openinteract.sourceforge.net/


For further details on installation, see the separate INSTALL file.


WHAT'S NEW?
-----------

Version 3.00 is a complete rewrite of Template-Latex.

Version 2.16 was the first release of Template-Latex.  It was created
by moving the code out of the core Template Toolkit distribution
(version 2.15).

See the Changes file for further details of the changes in these
releases.


GENERAL FEATURES
----------------

Some of the key features of the Template Toolkit Latex Plugin are listed below.
See the documentation for further detail.


DOCUMENTATION
-------------

The Template Toolkit is provided with enough documentation to keep all
but the most voracious reader happy for quite some time.

The 'Changes' file in the distribution directory documents all visible
changes between versions of the Template Toolkit.  See the section 
'VERSION COMPATABILITY' below for further details.

The 'TODO' file, also in the distribution directory, lists known bugs,
planned enhancements and possible new features for future versions.

The rest of the documentation is distributed in Pod and HTML formats.
The Pod pages are installed when you 'make install' and can be viewed
using 'perldoc', e.g.


SUPPORT
-------

The Template Toolkit mailing list provides a forum for discussing
issues relating to the use and abuse of the Template Toolkit.  There
are a number of knowledgeable and helpful individuals who frequent the
list (including the author) who can often offer help or suggestions.
Please respect their time and patience by checking the documentation
and/or mailing list archives before asking questions that may already
have been answered.   

To subscribe to the mailing list, send an email to:

    templates-request@template-toolkit.org

with the message 'subscribe' in the body.  You can also use the web 
interface to subscribe or browse the archives:

    http://www.template-toolkit.org/mailman/listinfo/templates

A low-volume, moderated mailing list exists for announcements about new
releases of the Template Toolkit and related products.  To subscribe, send
an email to:

    templates-announce-request@template-toolkit.org

with the message 'subscribe' in the body.  A web interface also exists
for subscription and browsing the archives:

    http://www.template-toolkit.org/mailman/listinfo/templates-announce

For information about commercial support and consultancy for the Template 
Toolkit, please contact the author.


AUTHOR
------

The Template Toolkit Latex plugin was originally written as part of
the Template Toolkit distribution by Andy Wardley <abw@wardley.org>
with the assistance and contributions from many other people. In 2006
the Latex plugin was separated out into its own distribution and
Andrew Ford <a.ford@ford-mason.co.uk> the took over as maintainer.

See Template::Manual::Credits for details.


COPYRIGHT
---------

Copyright (C) 2006-2007 Andrew Ford.   All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 1996-2007 Andy Wardley.  All Rights Reserved.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as Perl itself.

