Conjury::Stage -- Perl Conjury support for staging large builds
----------------------------------------------------------------------


The Perl Conjury system is a general purpose software construction
framework. It's an alternative to the venerable make utility, but
since it is written entirely in Perl, its capabilities extend to
functions traditionally implemented using a text preprocessor to
generate Makefile files, i.e. to configure for product variants.

Perl Conjury is a modular framework. The core software is very
general. For example, for constructing large build chains where the
source code is distributed throughout a hierarchy of directories and
the build products contain very long chains of dependencies, it may
be useful to have a staging area separate from the source code tree.
This module extends the core Conjury software with an abstraction
for such a staging area.

The software is in the early development phase.  All the interfaces
are subject to change in subsequent versions.

To use Conjury::Stage, you'll need to install Perl 5.005 (or a more
recent version) on your system.  You'll also need to download and
install the Conjury::Core distribution and anything it requires.

When you're ready, the procedure is straightforward:

	% perl Makefile.PL
	% make
	% make test
	% make install

(Note: at this writing there are no tests to perform.  This will be
fixed before the software is submitted to the CPAN.)

After you've installed it, the documentation is available through the
perldoc interface.  There is no online documentation yet.

	% perldoc Conjury::Stage

The software is designed to be functional on all the platforms where
Perl can use the 'system' builtin function.  It hasn't been run on any
platforms other than Solaris 2.5.1 and Linux 2.2 yet.

There is no tutorial for Perl Conjury yet, but a moderately complex
example is available.  The author has written a C++ library that uses
Perl Conjury instead of make.  The README and the source tarball can
be found at the following locations:

+ http://www.wetware.com/jhw/src/puck.readme
+ http://www.wetware.com/jhw/src/puck.tar.gz


-----
Copyright 1999, James Woodyatt

Perl Conjury for Staging is open source software.  You may modify
and redistribute it, provided you agree to the terms of its BSD-style
license.  See the LICENSE file accompanying the distribution.


--
j h woodyatt <jhw@wetware.com>
last modified: 2001-04-30
