Mac-Pasteboard is Copyright (C) 2008, 2011-2017 by Thomas R. Wyant, III

DESCRIPTION

This XS module accesses Mac OS X pasteboards, which can be thought of as
clipboards with bells and whistles. System-defined pasteboards can be
accessed, and user-defined pasteboards can be created and accessed. Each
pasteboard can contain multiple items of data, and each item can contain
multiple 'flavors.'

NOTE that Mac OS X appears to restrict pasteboard access to processes
that are logged in interactively. Ssh sessions and cron jobs can not
create the requisite pasteboard handles, giving coreFoundationUnknownErr
(-4960).

Flavors (Apple's technical term) correspond more or less to MIME types,
but are specified as Uniform Type Identifiers, which look like Internet
domain names, but reversed. A number of these are recognized by the
system, and organized into a hierarchy. More-specific members of the
hierarchy are considered to 'conform to' less-specific members, or not,
as the case may be. For instance, 'public.utf16-plain-text' conforms to
'public.plain-text', which in turn conforms to 'public.text'. But none
of them conforms to 'public.image'.  Conformance is transitive, so
'public.utf16-plain-text' also conforms to 'public.plain-text', and so
on.

This module makes all these features available to the user, but is (I
hope!) organized in such a way that the user who does not wish to deal
with them need not do so, since defaults are provided to cover what the
author suspects to be the most common case: manipulating plain text on
the system clipboard.

The programming interface is object-oriented. Each object represents a
pasteboard, with the default being the system clipboard. Item ID is an
attribute of the object rather than a method argument, with the default
(undef) being special-cased to write to item ID 1, but read from the
most recent ID. Flavor _is_ an argument, but defaults to
'com.apple.traditional-mac-plain-text', which is the flavor used by the
'pbcopy' and 'pbpaste' executables provided with Mac OS X. A couple
convenience subroutines (pbcopy() and pbpaste()) are provided to make
things even simpler, and are exported by default. Also exported on
demand are various manifest constants: pasteboard names, flavor and
status flags, and pasteboard-related error codes.

INSTALLATION

This module is installable by either of the two usual incantations:

  tar -xzf Mac-Pasteboard-9.999.tar.gz
  cd Mac-Pasteboard-9.999
  perl Makefile.PL
  make
  make test
  sudo make install

or

  tar -xzf Mac-Pasteboard-9.999.tar.gz
  cd Mac-Pasteboard-9.999
  perl Build.PL
  ./Build
  ./Build test
  sudo ./Build install

DEPENDENCIES

This module requires these other modules and libraries:

  Scalar::Util 1.01 or later (in core since 5.8).

This module also requires Mac OS 10.3 (Panther) or above. Because it is
an XS module, you will need to install X Code tools. This probably came
with your Mac, but updates are available from the Apple Developer
Connection, http://developer.apple.com/.

LICENSING INFORMATION

This package is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl 5.10.0. For more details, see the full text
of the licenses in the directory LICENSES.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
without any warranty; without even the implied warranty of
merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.
