Log::Any

"Log::Any" provides a standard log production API for modules.
Log::Any::Adapter allows applications to choose the mechanism for log
consumption, whether screen, file or another logging mechanism like
Log::Dispatch or Log::Log4perl.

Many modules have something interesting to say. Unfortunately there is
no standard way for them to say it - some output to STDERR, others to
"warn", others to custom file logs. And there is no standard way to get
a module to start talking - sometimes you must call a uniquely named
method, other times set a package variable.

This being Perl, there are many logging mechanisms available on CPAN.
Each has their pros and cons. Unfortunately, the existence of so many
mechanisms makes it difficult for a CPAN author to commit his/her users
to one of them. This may be why many CPAN modules invent their own
logging or choose not to log at all.

To untangle this situation, we must separate the two parts of a logging
API. The first, *log production*, includes methods to output logs (like
"$log->debug") and methods to inspect whether a log level is activated
(like "$log->is_debug"). This is generally all that CPAN modules care
about. The second, *log consumption*, includes a way to configure where
logging goes (a file, the screen, etc.) and the code to send it there.
This choice generally belongs to the application.

A CPAN module uses "Log::Any" to get a log producer object. An
application, in turn, may choose one or more logging mechanisms via
Log::Any::Adapter, or none at all.

"Log::Any" has a very tiny footprint and no dependencies beyond Perl
5.8.1, which makes it appropriate for even small CPAN modules to use. It
defaults to 'null' logging activity, so a module can safely log without
worrying about whether the application has chosen (or will ever choose)
a logging mechanism.

See <http://www.openswartz.com/2007/09/06/standard-logging-api/> for the
original post proposing this module.

INSTALLATION

This is a Perl module distribution. It should be installed with whichever
tool you use to manage your installation of Perl, e.g. any of

  cpanm .
  cpan  .
  cpanp -i .

Consult http://www.cpan.org/modules/INSTALL.html for further instruction.
Should you wish to install this module manually, the procedure is

  perl Makefile.PL
  make
  make test
  make install

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2017 by Jonathan Swartz, David Golden,
and Doug Bell.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.
