WWW-Comix version 0.1.1

NOTE NOTE NOTE

This module's test suite is virtually not existent. Given the fact that
this module's goal is interacting with external sites to get stuff,
I've still to think a set of tests that can be done without actual
network access to those sites.

NOTE NOTE NOTE

This modules eases the programmatical access to comic publishing sites.
It deals with the differences in any of them, providing you with an
abstraction layer that hides all the weird bits. New sites can be added
easily by means of its plugin system.

The philosophy, and many ideas, have been taken by the excellent
WWW::Comic by Nicola Worthington. In particular, the idea of "probing"
and the general organisation of the plugins is more or less the same.
Why another module then? The main thing that is lacking in WWW::Comic
is a way to programmatically access the whole list of available comics
in a site.

In particular, WWW::Comic allows you to specify an id for the feature
you’re interested into, but when it comes to knowing which ids are
actually available you’re on your own. WWW::Comix fills this gap.

This module acts as a front-end towards the various plugins that do the
actual work behind the scenes. To get an "agent" for comic download
you’ll need to know - ehr - which comic you’re interested into:

   my $comix = WWW::Comix->new(comic => $feature, probe => ’ok’);

Whether you need to probe or not depends on your application. If you
already probed before, chances are that you don’t need to do that
again.

AN IMPORTANT NOTE - PLEASE READ

   Beware that there’s a difference between the tool and using the tool.

   Whether you’re allowed to use this module, and the tools that come with
   it, is entirely up to you. This collection of modules gives you a
   framework for accessing comics programmatically, shaping it around a
   metaphor that proves to be effective in the most popular comics sites.

   On the other hand, the fact that these pieces of software are there
   does not mean that you’re allowed to use them. You should peruse the
   documentation of every and each site before deciding that you can use
   it; moreover, when you do it you understand that you’ll be the sole
   responsible. In poor’s man words, if the rules of the particular site
   say that you’re not allowed to systematically download features, or
   access the site with anything different from a web browser, than you
   should either get permissions or refrain from using the module.  Note
   that I don’t even support the idea that this module, and the tools that
   come with it, can be regarded as a browser.

   If you’re even in doubt about your possibility to use it, chances are
   that you’re not allowed to do, so I urge you NOT to use it. See also
   the "DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY" and "NEGAZIONE DELLA GARANZIA" in the
   module's documentation.


INSTALLATION

To install this module, run the following commands:

	perl Makefile.PL
	make
	make test
	make install

Alternatively, to install with Module::Build, you can use the following commands:

	perl Build.PL
	./Build
	./Build test
	./Build install


DEPENDENCIES

See documentation


COPYRIGHT AND LICENCE

Copyright (C) 2008, Flavio Poletti

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.
