This is the README file for Text::Vpp, the Perl versatile
pre-processor.

You may find this module useful if you want to preprocess text. 

Vpp can handle conditional text, loop, variable substitutions in the
text.  Advanced users may also include inline perl code , inline
subroutines in the text.

In other words, Vpp understands if, else, elsif, endif, include,
foreach and variables such as $foo and $bar. (See the test files in
the distribution for examples).

You may also include small perl instructions to manipulate or set the 
variables inside the text.

The product of the substitution may be written directly on a file or 
loaded in the user's program for further manipulations.

You might want to use Text::Vpp instead of cpp if :
- you use the '#' in your file as a comment character
- are tired of angular #ifdef and prefer round shapes such as @ifdef
- want to keep /* ... */ in your file
- cpp doesn't like your text.
- you are allergic to cpp
- want to include shell or perl code output in your text

You might also want to use Text::Vpp instead of m4 if :
- you can't find the m4 macro to do what you want
- m4 think your text is a macro
- you are allergic to m4

Another advantage of using the module is to do the pre-processing inside
your perl program instead of spawning another process.


This module is in 'Release' state

This module requires perl5.6.0.

See the embedded documentation in the module for more details.

Comments and suggestions are always welcome.

Finally, I'd like to thank Helmut Jarausch for his bug report and the
numerous patches he provided (including the 'foreach' feature).

Copyright (c) 1996-2001 Dominique Dumont. All rights reserved.  This
program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.

 - Dominique Dumont
   dominique_dumont@grenoble.hp.com

---------------------------------------------------------------------
INSTALLATION

   	 gunzip -x <distribution_file> | tar xvf -
   	 cd <module>
   	 perl Makefile.PL
   	 make test
   	 make install

