Champlain
=========

NOTICE NOTICE NOTICE NOTICE NOTICE NOTICE NOTICE NOTICE NOTICE NOTICE

This module has been deprecated by the Gtk-Perl project.  This means that the
module will no longer be updated with security patches, bug fixes, or when
changes are made in the Perl ABI.  The Git repo for this module has been
archived (made read-only), it will no longer possible to submit new commits to
it.  You are more than welcome to ask about this module on the Gtk-Perl
mailing list, but our priorities going forward will be maintaining Gtk-Perl
modules that are supported and maintained upstream; this module is neither.

Since this module is licensed under the LGPL v2.1, you may also fork this
module, if you wish, but you will need to use a different name for it on CPAN,
and the Gtk-Perl team requests that you use your own resources (mailing list,
Git repos, bug trackers, etc.) to maintain your fork going forward.

* Perl URL: https://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/perl-champlain
* Upstream URL: https://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/libchamplain

NOTICE NOTICE NOTICE NOTICE NOTICE NOTICE NOTICE NOTICE NOTICE NOTICE

Perl bindings for the C library "libchamplain" that provides a ClutterActor for
displaying geographical maps from various free sources. Libchamplain provides a
simple mechanism for rendering maps in an application or for embedding maps in
an existing application.

The library relies on Clutter for all rendering and can easily be embedded in
any Gtk2 application (look for Gtk2::Champlain on CPAN).

The maps displayed are taken from various sources, all providing maps for free,
at the moment the following sources area available: OpenStreetMap, OpenAerialMap
and Maps for free. It's also possible to provide other sources through a simple
API.

For more information about libchamplain refer to the library's web site:

	http://projects.gnome.org/libchamplain/


INSTALLATION

To install this module, run the following commands:

	perl Makefile.PL
	make
	make test
	make install


SUPPORT AND DOCUMENTATION

After installing you can find documentation for this module with the
perldoc command.

	perldoc Champlain

Also feel free to take a look at the examples in the folder "examples/" and to
play around with them.

For any kind of help or support, simply send a mail to the libchamplain mailing
list (libchamplain-list@gnome.org) or join us in the IRC channel #champlain on
freenode.


COPYRIGHT AND LICENCE

Copyright (C) 2009-2010 Emmanuel Rodriguez

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU Library General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version; or the Artistic License, version 2.0.

This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU Library General Public License for more
details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Library General Public License along
with this library; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59
Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA.
