NAME
    Math::SymbolicX::Calculator::Interface::Web - An AJAXy web interface to
    the calculator

SYNOPSIS
      # simplest form of usage:
      use Math::SymbolicX::Calculator::Interface::Web;
      my $interface = Math::SymbolicX::Calculator::Interface::Web->new();
      # But you probably want to use
      # Math::SymbolicX::Calculator::Interface::Web::Server instead!

DESCRIPTION
    This module implements an AJAX-enabled web interface to the
    Math::SymbolicX::Calculator.

    This is alpha software!

    You probably want to look at the "symbolic_calculator_web_server" script
    or the Math::SymbolicX::Calculator::Interface::Web::Server module which
    come with this distribution instead!

METHODS
  new
    Returns a new web interface object.

    Optional parameters: (default in parenthesis)

      calc => a Math::SymbolicX::Calculator object to use

  execute_expression
    Runs a single expression.

  calc
    Returns the Calculator object of this Web Interface.

  exit_hook
    Call this before stopping the web interface. It runs all cleanup actions
    such as those needed for a possible persistance.

    This method doesn't actually kill your script, but returns after doing
    the cleanup.

  error
    Used to issue a warning to the user. First argument must be an error
    message to display. This is currently ignored for the web interface.
    Investigating methods to pass this to the client in a reliable fashion.

  _parse_command
    Parses generic commands such as exit and print.

    This might change. (Name and implementation)

    First argument: Expression to parse.

  _generic_out
    Generic output routine: Print Formulas and messages alike

    Subject to change and refactoring.

SEE ALSO
    Math::SymbolicX::Calculator::Interface::Web::Server

    CGI::Ajax, HTTP::Server::Simple::CGI

    Math::SymbolicX::Calculator,
    Math::SymbolicX::Calculator::Interface::Shell

    Math::Symbolic, Math::Symbolic::Custom::Transformation

AUTHOR
    Steffen Müller, <smueller@cpan.org>

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
    Copyright (C) 2007 by Steffen Müller

    This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
    under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.6 or, at your
    option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

