In the ../bin directory are four example programs:

1.  penguind 

This is a 'daemon' which waits around for Penguin programs to contact
it and send it a code frame.  It unwraps the code frame and executes it.
It then creates a data frame out of the return value of the code and
sends that back.  It prints a lot of stuff on the screen to show you
what's going on.

Occasionally, a port will get wedged (because we can't set SO_NOLINGER
on the socket just yet) during heavy testing.  Either wait about 30
seconds and try to start penguind again, or give it a port number as
its first argument and it'll start there.

2.  pclient 

'pclient' wraps up some code and sends it to a penguind running
on localhost.  If you want to change that, change the source
code. It then listens for a return value data packet and prints 
out what it got.

3.  makeapplet PERLCODEFILE

'makeapplet' wraps the code in PERLCODEFILE *insecurely* and writes
a Penguin frame to the file PERLCODEFILE.pen.

4.  runapplet PENGUINFILE

'runapplet.pl' unwraps the code in PENGUINFILE and runs it in a secure
compartment (you could use this as a web browser helper app).

In this 'misc' directory, you'll also find six other files:

evilapplet    The perl source code for an 'evil' applet (it
              runs /bin/date using backticks, which is deemed
              a bad idea).

evilapp.pen   The Penguin applet file that wraps 'evilapp.pl'.
              Run this using 'runapplet.pl' from the bin directory
              (it should fail with a suitably ominous error message).

codefile      A file suitable for sending with client -f.
              Read it first (and of course have a penguind running).

rightsfile    An example rightsfile.  GO AND READ Safe.pm BEFORE
              YOU ATTEMPT TO EDIT A RIGHTSFILE.  However, this
              one should be relatively safe to copy into your
              home directory as '.rightsfile'.

mycat.asc     the PGP public key of my EXTREMELY NONTRUSTABLE cat,
              Map.  DO NOT GIVE THIS CAT RIGHTS TO DO ANYTHING TO
              YOUR SERVICE!  HE LOOKS CUTE BUT HE'S MEAN AS A SNAKE!

felix.asc     the PGP public key of Felix S. Gallo <fsg@ultranet.com>.
              That's me!  I believe strongly that nobody has ever compromised
              my private key, and that I will never knowingly sign code
              which will damage your machine.  If you're really worried
              about whether this key is mine, send me mail and I'll
              send you the md5sum.

Please add these to your PGP key ring, and, if you like, make appropriate
entries in your $HOME/.rightsfile.  Further, please feel free to send
me your PGP keys and penguind locations.
