NAME

    Alien::Alien - Find or use alien package conversion tool

VERSION

    version 0.02

SYNOPSIS

     use Alien::Alien;
     use Env qw( @PATH );
     
     unshift @ENV, Alien::Alien->bin_dir;
     
     system "alien --to-rpm --scripts ./mkpkg.deb";

DESCRIPTION

    This Alien module provides the alien tool that converts between
    different Linux package formats. Reading this documentation, and seeing
    the name, you may feel as though you are glancing through the looking
    glass. This distribution is not entirely a joke, though it is somewhat
    to tongue in cheek. One of the useful things that this module provides
    is some interesting challenges in the Alien space. That includes

    Tool is implemented as Perl

      alien is implemented in Perl, and distributed as a standard CPAN
      style distribution, but isn't available ON CPAN.

    Project is hosted on SourceForge

      This module drove development of
      Alien::Build::Plugin::Decode::SourceForge, which I expect will be
      useful for other Aliens.

    Tool is architecture independent

      Aliens using Alien::Build are usually installed in the architecture
      specific library location, because they usually are architecture
      specific. Since this tool is Perl, it is architecture independent, so
      we install it in the regular architecture independent library
      location.

    Project is distributed as a tar.xz file.

      This is an added complication and sort of a hassle for a few bytes
      saved. Thanks!

METHODS

 bin_dir

     my @dirs = Alien::Alien->bin_dir;

    Returns the list of directories that need to be added to the PATH in
    order for alien to work. This may be an empty list (as for a system
    install).

SEE ALSO

    Alien

    alienfile

    Alien::Build

    Alien::Base

AUTHOR

    Graham Ollis <plicease@cpan.org>

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

    This software is copyright (c) 2017 by Graham Ollis.

    This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
    the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

