NAME
    App::hopen - Graph-driven cross-platform build system

CURRENT STATUS
    Most features are not yet implemented ;) .  However it will generate a
    "Makefile" or "build.ninja" file for a C "Hello, World" program at this
    point!  It can generate command lines for gcc(1) or for Microsoft's
    "cl.exe".

    hopen is a cross-platform software build generator.  It makes files you
    can pass to Make, Ninja, Visual Studio, or other build tools, to compile
    and link your software.  hopen gives you:

    *   A full, Turing-complete, robust programming language to write your
        build scripts (specifically, Perl 5.14+)

    *   No hidden magic!  All your data is visible and accessible in a build
        graph (whence "graph-driven").

    *   Context-sensitivity.  Your users can tweak their own builds for their
        own platforms without affecting your project.

    See App::hopen::Conventions for details of the input format.

    Why Perl?  Because (1) you probably already have it installed, and (2) it
    is the original write-once, run-everywhere language!

  Example
    Create a file ".hopen.pl" in your source tree.  Then:

        $ hopen
        From ``.'' into ``built''
        Running Check phase

    Now "built/MY.hopen.pl" has been created, and loaded with information
    about your configuration.  You can edit that file if you want to change
    what will happen next.

        $ hopen
        From ``.'' into ``built''
        Running Gen phase

    Now "built/Makefile" has been created.

        $ hopen --build
        Building in foo/built

    And your software is ready to go!  "make" has been run in "built/", with
    output left in "built/".

    See App::hopen::Conventions for information on writing ".hopen.pl" files.

SYNOPSIS
        hopen [options] [--] [destination dir [project dir]]

    If no project directory is specified, the current directory is used.

    If no destination directory is specified, "<project dir>/built" is used.

    See App::hopen and App::hopen::Conventions for more details.

OPTIONS
    -a "architecture"
        Specify the architecture.  This is an arbitrary string interpreted by
        the generator or toolset.

    --build
        Run the generator to process the blueprint files.  Cannot be used with
        "--fresh".

    -e "Perl code"
        Add the "Perl code" as if it were a hopen file.  "-e" files are
        processed after all other hopen files, so can modify anything that has
        been set up by those files.  Can be specified more than once.

    --fresh
        Start a fresh build --- ignore any "MY.hopen.pl" file that may exist
        in the destination directory.  Cannot be used with "--build".

    --from "project dir"
        Specify the project directory.  Overrides a project directory given as
        a positional argument.

    -g "generator" (or -G)
        Specify the generator.  The given "generator" should be either a full
        package name or the part after "App::hopen::Gen::".  Also accepts "-G"
        to ease the transition from cmake.

    -t "toolset" (or -T)
        Specify the toolset.  The given "toolset" should be either a full
        package name or the part after "App::hopen::T::".  Also accepts "-T"
        to ease the transition from cmake.

    --to "destination dir"
        Specify the destination directory.  Overrides a destination directory
        given as a positional argument.

    --phase "phase"
        Specify which phase of the process to run.  Note that this overrides
        whatever is specified in any MY.hopen.pl file, so may cause unexpected
        results!

        If "--phase" is given, no other hopen file can set the phase, and
        hopen will terminate if a file attempts to do so.

    -q  Produce no output (quiet).  Overrides "-v".

    -v, --verbose=n
        Verbose.  Specify more "v"'s for more verbosity.  At present, "-vv"
        (equivalently, "--verbose=2") gives you detailed traces of the data,
        and "-vvv" gives you more detailed code tracebacks on error.

    --version
        Print the version of hopen and exit

AUTHOR
    Christopher White, "cxwembedded at gmail.com"

SUPPORT
    You can find documentation for this module with the perldoc command.

        perldoc App::hopen                      For command-line options
        perldoc App::hopen::Conventions         For terminology and workflow
        perldoc Data::Hopen                     For the underlying engine

    You can also look for information at:

    *   GitHub: The project's main repository and issue tracker

        <https://github.com/hopenbuild/App-hopen>

    *   MetaCPAN

        <https://metacpan.org/pod/App::hopen>

    *   This distribution

        See the "eg/" directory distributed with this software for examples.

LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT
    Copyright (c) 2018--2019 Christopher White.  All rights reserved.

    This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
    under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by
    the Free Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the License, or (at
    your option) any later version.

    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
    WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
    or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU Lesser General Public
    License for more details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public License
    along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation,
    Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301  USA

