NAME
    Alien::SIMDe - Find or build the SIMDe library

VERSION
    version 0.01

SYNOPSIS
     use Alien::SIMDe;
 
     my $include_dir = Alien::SIMDe->cflags;

    Install the SIMDe portable intrinsics header only library.

DESCRIPTION
    This module provides access to the SIMDe (SIMD Everywhere) library,
    which offers portable implementations of SIMD intrinsics across various
    architectures.

SEE ALSO
    SIMDe <https://github.com/simd-everywhere/simde>
        (From the SIMDe GitHub repository) The SIMDe header-only library
        provides fast, portable implementations of SIMD intrinsics on
        hardware which doesn't natively support them, such as calling SSE
        functions on ARM. There is no performance penalty if the hardware
        supports the native implementation (e.g., SSE/AVX runs at full speed
        on x86, NEON on ARM, etc.).

        This makes porting code to other architectures much easier in a few
        key ways:

        First, instead of forcing you to rewrite everything for each
        architecture, SIMDe lets you get a port up and running almost
        effortlessly. You can then start working on switching the most
        performance-critical sections to native intrinsics, improving
        performance gradually. SIMDe lets (for example) SSE/AVX and NEON
        code exist side-by-side, in the same implementation.

        Second, SIMDe makes it easier to write code targeting ISA extensions
        you don't have convenient access to. You can run NEON code on your
        x86 machine without an emulator. Obviously you'll eventually want to
        test on the actual hardware you're targeting, but for most
        development, SIMDe can provide a much easier path.

        SIMDe takes a very different approach from most other SIMD
        abstraction layers in that it aims to expose the entire
        functionality of the underlying instruction set. Instead of limiting
        functionality to the lowest common denominator, SIMDe tries to
        minimize the amount of effort required to port while still allowing
        you the space to optimize as needed.

    Alien
        Documentation on the Alien concept itself.

    Alien::Base
        The base class for this Alien.

    Alien::Build::Manual::AlienUser
        Detailed manual for users of Alien classes.

AUTHOR
    Christos Argyropoulos <chrisarg@cpan.org>

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
    This software is copyright (c) 2025 by Christos Argyropoulos.

    This is distributed under the BSD-2 license

