NAME

    Alien::parasail

VERSION

    version 1.232370

DESCRIPTION

    This distribution provides parasail so that it can be used by other
    Perl distributions that are on CPAN. It does this by first trying to
    detect an existing install of parasail on your system. If found it will
    use that. If it cannot be found, the source code will be downloaded
    from the internet and it will be installed in a private share location
    for the use of other modules.

SEE ALSO

    parasail <https://github.com/jeffdaily/parasail>

      The parasail library home page.

      parasail is a SIMD C (C99) library containing implementations of the
      Smith-Waterman (local), Needleman-Wunsch (global), and various
      semi-global pairwise sequence alignment algorithms. Here, semi-global
      means insertions before the start or after the end of either the
      query or target sequence are optionally not penalized. parasail
      implements most known algorithms for vectorized pairwise sequence
      alignment, including diagonal [Wozniak, 1997], blocked [Rognes and
      Seeberg, 2000], striped [Farrar, 2007], and prefix scan [Daily,
      2015]. Therefore, parasail is a reference implementation for these
      algorithms in addition to providing an implementation of the
      best-performing algorithm(s) to date on today's most advanced CPUs.

      parasail implements the above algorithms currently in three variants,
      1) returning the alignment score and ending locations, 2)
      additionally returning alignment statistics (number of exact matches,
      number of similarities, and alignment length), and 3) functions that
      store a traceback for later retrieval as a SAM CIGAR string. The
      three variants exist because parasail is intended to be
      high-performing; calculating additional statistics or the traceback
      will perform slower than simply calculating the alignment score.
      Select the appropriate implementation for your needs.

    Alien

      Documentation on the Alien concept itself.

    Alien::Base

      The base class for this Alien.

    Alien::Build::Manual::AlienUser

      Detailed manual for users of Alien classes.

AUTHOR

    Christos Argyropoulos <chrisarg@gmail.com>

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

    This software is copyright (c) 2023 by Christos Argyropoulos.

    This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
    the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

