Date-Tolkien-Shire-Data is Copyright (C) 2017 by Thomas R. Wyant, III

DESCRIPTION

This Perl module contains common or near-common code factored out of
Date::Tolkien::Shire and DateTime::Fiction::JRRTolkien::Shire. This is
mostly data and calculations common to the two modules, but there is
also a piece of new functionality: an output formatter for Shire dates
analogous to strftime(). All functionality is provided by subroutines.

Because of its nature, you probably do not want to use this module directly.
At least, not without looking into Date::Tolkien::Shire which is a semi-thin
object-oriented front end to this module, or
DateTime::Fiction::JRRTolkien::Shire which is a somewhat-quirky member of the
DateTime family.

INSTALLATION

This module is best installed using your favorite CPAN client: cpan,
cpanp, or cpanm. ActivePerl users can try their ppm.

Failing that, you can use one of the two usual incantations:

    gunzip Date-Tolkien-Shire-Data-9.999.tar.gz
    tar -xf Date-Tolkien-Shire-Data-9.999.tar
    perl Makefile.PL
    make
    make test
    make install

or

    gunzip Date-Tolkien-Shire-Data-9.999.tar.gz
    tar -xf Date-Tolkien-Shire-Data-9.999.tar
    perl Build.PL
    ./Build
    ./Build test
    ./Build install

You should substitute the appropriate program name for 'make', eg nmake
(typically) under MSWin32, or mms or mmk under VMS. See
ftp://ftp.microsoft.com/Softlib/MSLFILES/nmake15.exe for a copy of
nmake for MSWin32 if you need it.

Of course, since it's pure Perl, you can just expand the kit and drop
SpaceTrack.pm and the SpaceTrack folder into the Astro directory
(creating it if necessary) in the appropriate place in your @INC
directories.

LICENSING INFORMATION

This package is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl 5.10.0. For more details, see the full text
of the licenses in the directory LICENSES.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
without any warranty; without even the implied warranty of
merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.
