Please read NEWS, and possibly TODO, if you've written code for a
previous version of Net::xAP.  Significant changes have been made
since the previous release.  Your code will probably break on this
version!!!  The good news is that this version is a signficant
improvement over the previous version.

This is an alpha release of the Net::xAP module package for perl5.

This module provides an interface to the protocol family represented
by IMAP, IMSP, ACAP, and ICAP.  A usable IMAP module is also provide.
As a side note, the following list of acronym expansions is in the
same priority order I expect to follow for the development of
Net::xAP.

    IMAP = Internet Message Access Protocol
    ACAP = Application Configuration Access Protocol
    IMSP = Internet Message Support Protocol
    ICAP = Internet Calendar Access Protocol

WARNING! WARNING! WARNING! WARNING! WARNING! WARNING! WARNING! WARNING!
Think twice about using this module to modify data on a server.  I'm not
done beating on it.

WARNING! WARNING! WARNING! WARNING! WARNING! WARNING! WARNING! WARNING!
The method interface is currently in an evaluation phase.  Since the
module is at an early stage of its life, I'm not going to try too
hard to maintain backward compatability with older alpha versions.  I
am, however, going to try to make all changes to the method interfaces
before it reaches beta release.  Also note that the code is still
crufty in several conspicuous places, but it's moving in the right
direction.

WARNING! WARNING! WARNING! WARNING! WARNING! WARNING! WARNING! WARNING!
In case the previous two warnings weren't enough for you - some of the
protocols this package implements are still under development. Expect
discontinuities between this package and the protocols as they trek
towards standardosity.  As of the writing of this file, IMAP and ACAP
are 'Proposed Standard' protocols, so they shouldn't present any
significant problems.  ICAP is an 'Internet Draft' and is subject to
change at any time, possibly even death.  IMSP never quite made it to
an RFC, and is being supplanted by ACAP.

To build and install the package execute the following commands:
	perl Makefile.PL
	make
	make test
		Note: The regression currently requires UW-imapd, and
		      expects to find it in /usr/sbin.  Edit
		      t/*_imap*.t if it's located elsewhere.
	make install

Net::xAP requires the MIME::Base64 and Digest-MD5 modules.

The TODO file has a list of features that either aren't present or
aren't complete.

The NEWS file has summary information on the changes from release to
release.

The BUGS file has information on current implementation bugs/malfeatures.

The CREDITS file lists folks who have been particularly helpful/brave.

This release was developed and tested using 5.005_03.

Please contact me if you use this for anything non-trivial.  This is
not for permission, it's so I can get some idea of what folks are
using the package for other than trivial scripts.

Please report any bugs/suggestions to <kjj@pobox.com>.

Copyright (c) 1997-1999 Kevin Johnson <kjj@pobox.com>.

All rights reserved. This program is free software; you can
redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.
