NAME
    App::Metabase::Relayd::Plugin::IRC - IRC plugin for metabase-relayd

VERSION
    version 0.08

SYNOPSIS
      # example metabase-relayd configuration file

      [IRC]

      server = my.irc.server
      nick = myrelayd

DESCRIPTION
    App::Metabase::Relayd::Plugin::IRC is an IRC plugin for
    App::Metabase::Relayd and metabase-relayd that announces on IRC channels
    when reports are received by the daemon.

    Configuration is handled by a section in the metabase-relayd
    configuration file.

    When metabase-relayd starts a bot will join configured channels and
    start announcing reports that it has received.

CONFIGURATION
    This plugin uses an "[IRC]" section within the metabase-relayd
    configuration file.

    The only mandatory required parameter is "server".

    "server"
        Specify the name or IP address of an ircd to connect to. Mandatory.

    "nick"
        The nickname to use. Defaults to "relayd" plus $$.

    "port"
        The ircd port to connect to. Defaults to 6667.

    "ircname"
        Some cute comment or something.

    "username"
        Your client's username.

    "password"
        The password that is required if your ircd is restricted.

    "channels"
        A comma-separated list of IRC channels to join, default is "#relayd"

    "flood"
        Set to a "true" value to disable anti-flood protection when sending
        stuff to the ircd. Defaults to "false" if not specified. Care should
        be used when enabling this option and it requires the cooperation of
        a friendly irc oper to ensure that disconnects and k-lines are not
        the side-effects of enabling this option.

SEE ALSO
    metabase-relayd

    App::Metabase::Relayd::Plugin

AUTHOR
    Chris Williams <chris@bingosnet.co.uk>

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
    This software is copyright (c) 2014 by Chris Williams.

    This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
    the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

