Games-Sudoku-General is Copyright (C) 2005, 2006, 2008, 2011-2013 by
Thomas R.  Wyant, III

DESCRIPTION

Games::Sudoku::General is a module to solve the class of puzzle that
involves allocating symbols among sets such that no set contains more
than one of any symbol. Sudoku is the most common name for such
puzzles, though Number Place and Wasabi have also been used.

Each puzzle is considered to be made up of a number of cells, each of
which is a member of one or more sets, and each of which may contain
exactly one symbol. The contents of a number of cells are gven, and the
problem is to deduce the contents of the rest of the cells.

INSTALLATION

Most Perl users will want to install using their favorite of either
'cpan' or 'cpanp'. For either of these, installing
Games::Sudoku::General gets you everything. ActivePerl users will want
to use ActiveState's 'ppi', and install Games-Sudoku-General.

If for some reason neither of these works for you, you can download the
distribution and expand it using something like

    tar -xzf Games-Sudoku-General-9.999.tar.gz

Users of MSWin32 (and perhaps other operating systems) may need to
convert the line endings in the expanded files from Unix to their native
system before proceeding.

Then, issue one of the following two incantations:

    perl Makefile.PL
    make
    make test
    sudo make install

or

    perl Build.PL
    ./Build
    ./Build test
    sudo ./Build install

You should substitute the appropriate program name for 'make', eg nmake
(typically) under MSWin32, or mms or mmk under VMS. See
ftp://ftp.microsoft.com/Softlib/MSLFILES/nmake15.exe for a copy of
nmake for MSWin32 if you need it.

Unix users may want to use 'su' rather than 'sudo' for the install.
Non-unix users may need to be logged in to an administrative or
otherwise privileged accout, and turn on privileges (if applicable) for
the install.

Of course, since it's pure Perl, you can just expand the kit and drop
the .pm files into the Games/Sudoku directory (creating it if necessary)
in the appropriate place in your @INC directories.

OS-specific notes exist for (at least) MacOS (meaning, Mac OS 9
and lower), MSWin32, and VMS. See the relevant README files for
details.

LICENSING INFORMATION

This package is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl 5.10.0. For more details, see the full text
of the licenses in the directory LICENSES.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
without any warranty; without even the implied warranty of
merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.
