SYNOPSIS

    In your weaver.ini:

     [-Rinci]
     ;exclude_modules = REGEX
     ;exclude_files = REGEX

DESCRIPTION

    This plugin inserts stuffs to POD documentation based on information
    found on Rinci metadata.

 For modules

    For modules, the following are inserted:

      * DESCRIPTION

      From description property from package metadata, if any.

      * FUNCTIONS

      Documentation for each function for which the metadata is found under
      the package will be added here. For each function, there will be
      summary, description, usage, list of arguments and their
      documentation, as well as examples, according to what's available in
      the function metadata of corresponding function.

    To get Rinci metadata from a module, Perinci::Access::Perl is used.

 For Perinci::CmdLine-based CLI script

    For scripts using Perinci::CmdLine (or its variant ::Any and ::Lite),
    the following are inserted:

      * SYNOPSIS

      If the script's POD does not yet have this section, this section will
      be added containing the usage line of the script.

      * DESCRIPTION

      If the script's POD does not already have this section, and if the
      script does not have subcommands, description from function metadata
      will be inserted here, if any.

      * SUBCOMMANDS

      If the script's POD does not already have his section, and if the
      script has subcommands, then each subcommand will be listed here
      along with its summary and description.

      * OPTIONS

      If the script's POD does not already have his section, command-line
      options for the script will be listed here. If script has
      subcommands, the options will be categorized per subcommand.

      * CONFIGURATION

      If the script's POD does not already have his section, general
      information about configuration files and available configuration
      parameters will be listed here. If script has subcommands, the
      parameters will be categorized per subcommand.

      * FILES

      Configuration files read by script will be listed here.

    To get Perinci::CmdLine object information (which contains the URL of
    the Rinci function, or the list of subcommands, among others), the
    script is run with a patched run() that will dump the content of the
    object and exit immediately, so the plugin can inspect it.

    Caveats: 1) Function used by the script must reside in the module, not
    embedded inside the script itself, otherwise it will not be readable by
    the plugin. 2) Coderef subcommands is not supported.

    To exclude a script from being processed, you can also put #
    NO_PWP_RINCI in the script.

SEE ALSO

    Pod::Weaver

