NAME
    Data::Package - Base class for packages that are purely data

SYNOPSIS
      ### Using a Data::Package
  
      use Global::Config;
  
      # Get the data in the default or a prefered format
      Global::Config->get;
      Global::Config->get('Config::Tiny');
  
      # Can we get the data in a particular format?
      Global::Config->provides('Config::Tiny');
  
      ### Creating a data package
  
      package Global::Config;
  
      use strict;
      use base 'Data::Package';
      use Config::Tiny ();
  
      # Load and return the data as a Config::Tiny object.
      sub __as_Config_Tiny {
            local $/;
            Config::Tiny->read_string(<DATA>);
      }
  
      1;
  
      __DATA__
  
      [section]
      foo=1
      bar=2

INTRODUCTION
    In the CPAN, a variety of different mechanisms are used by a variety of
    different authors in order to provide medium to large amounts of data to
    support the functionality contained in theirs or other people's modules.

    In this author's opinion these mechanisms are almost never clean and
    elegant and are often quite ugly. One of the worst examples was a module
    that converted the Arial font into a 2.7meg perl module.

    Why exactly the authors are having to resort to these measures is often
    unclear, although I suspect it is primarily the ease with which modules
    can be found (compared to data files). Regardless, one thing is very
    clear.

    There is no obvious, easy and universal way in which to create and
    deliver a "Data Product" via CPAN. A data product is a package in where
    there is little or more likely no functionality or code, and all of the
    "value" in the package is contained in the data itself.

    Within the global and unique namespace of perl, most of the packages
    represent code in the form of APIs. However this does not mean that code
    is the only thing that is capable of reserving a package name.

DESCRIPTION
    "Data::Package" provides the core of what is hoped will be a highly
    scalable and extendable API to create data packages and data products
    that can be delivered via the CPAN (and thus anywhere else).

    It provides a minimal API that separates how the developer obtains the
    data in their code from the methods by which the data is actually
    obtained, installed, loaded, parsed and accessed.

    The intent is that the consumer of the data should not have to know or
    care how the data is obtained, just that they are always able to obtain
    the data when they want in the format they want.

    It also allows the author or provider of the data to assign the data to
    a unique location within the perl namespace. The can then change or
    improve the underlying install, storage and loading mechanisms without
    the need for any code using that data to have to be changed.

  API Overview
    The core Data::Package API requires that only only two static methods be
    defined, and probably only one matters if you wrote both the data
    package, and code that is using it.

    In the simplest and (probably) most common case, where the data package
    returns only a single known object type, you should only have to load
    the module and then get the data from it.

      use My::Data::Package;
  
      $Data = My::Data::Package->get;

    For more complex cases where the data package is capable of providing
    the data in several formats, you can use the "provides" method to find
    out what types of object the data package is capable of providing.

      @classes = My::Data::Package->provides;

    Your code will most likely simply be confirming that the data is
    available in a particular format. Once you know you are able to get it
    in the format that you want, you can simple do the following.

      $Data = My::Data::Package->get('Object::Type');

STATUS
    The current implementation is considered to be a proof of concept only.

    It should work, and I do want to know about bugs, but it's a little
    early to be relying on it yet for production work. It does not have a
    sufficiently complete unit test library for starters.

    About half the implementation is done by pulling in functionality from
    other dependant modules, which are not completely production-standard
    themselves (in the case of Params::Coerce. For a proper production grade
    version, we probably shouldn't have any dependencies.

    However, the API itself is stable and final, and you can write code that
    uses this package safely, and any upgrades down the line should not
    affect it.

METHODS
  new
    The "new" constructor is provided mainly as a convenience, and to let
    you create handles to the data that can be passed around easily.

    Takes no arguments, and returns a new blessed object of the same class
    that you called it for.

  provides [ $class ]
    The "provides" method is used to find the list of formats the data
    package is capable of providing the data in, although typically it is
    just going to be one.

    When called without an argument, the method returns a list of all of the
    classes that the data can be provides as instantiated objects of.

    In this first version, it is assumed you are providing the data as some
    form of object.

    If provided an argument, the list will be filtered to list only those
    that are of the object type you specificied. This can be used to either
    limit the list, or check for a specific class you want.

    In both cases, the first class returned by "provides" is the same that
    will be returned by the "get" method when called with the same (or
    without an) argument.

    And either way, the method returns the classes in list context, or the
    number of classes in scalar context. This also lets you do things like:

      if ( Data::Thingy->provides('Big::Thing') ) {
            die "Data::Thingy cannot provide a Big::Thing";
      }

  get [ $class ]
    The "get" method does whatever is necesary to access and load the data
    product, and returns it as an object.

    If the data package is capable of providing the data in more than one
    format, you can optionally provide an object of the class that you want
    it in.

    Returns an object (possibly of a class you specify) or "undef" if it is
    unable to load the data, or it cannot provide the data in the format
    that you have requested.

SUPPORT
    Bugs should always be submitted via the CPAN bug tracker

    <http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/ReportBug.html?Queue=Data-Package>

    For other issues, contact the maintainer

AUTHOR
    Adam Kennedy <adamk@cpan.org>

COPYRIGHT
    Copyright 2005-2007 Adam Kennedy.

    This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
    under the same terms as Perl itself.

    The full text of the license can be found in the LICENSE file included
    with this module.

