NAME
    Algorithm::Dependency - Base class for implementing various dependency
    trees

SYNOPSIS
      use Algorithm::Dependency;
      use Algorithm::Dependency::Source::File;
      
  # Load the data from a simple text file
      my $data_source = Algorithm::Dependency::Source::File->new( 'foo.txt' );
      
  # Create the dependency object, and indicate the items that are already
      # selected/installed/etc in the database
      my $dep = Algorithm::Dependency->new(
          source   => $data_source,
          selected => [ 'This', 'That' ]
          ) or die 'Failed to set up dependency algorithm';
      
  # For the item 'Foo', find out the other things we also have to select.
      # This WON'T include the item we selected, 'Foo'.
      my $also = $dep->depends( 'Foo' );
      print $also
            ? "By selecting 'Foo', you are also selecting the following items: "
                    . join( ', ', @$also )
            : "Nothing else to select for 'Foo'";
      
  # Find out the order we need to act on the items in.
      # This WILL include the item we selected, 'Foo'.
      my $schedule = $dep->schedule( 'Foo' );

DESCRIPTION
    Algorithm::Dependency is a framework for creating simple read-only
    dependency heirachies, where you have a set of items that rely on other
    items in the set, and require actions on them as well.

    Despite the most visible of these being software installation systems
    like the CPAN installer, or debian apt-get, they are usefull in other
    situations. This module intentionally uses implementation-neutral words,
    to avoid confusion.

  Terminology
    The term "ITEM" refers to a single entity, such as a single software
    package, in the overall set of possible entities. Internally, this is a
    fairly simple object. See Algorithm::Dependency::Item for details.

    The term "SELECT" means that a particular item, for your purposes, has
    already been acted up in the required way. For example, if the software
    package had already been installed, and didn't need to be re-installed,
    it would be "SELECTED".

    The term "SOURCE" refers to a location that contains the master set of
    items. This will be very application specific, and might be a flat file,
    some form of database, the list of files in a folder, or generated
    dynamically.

  General Description
    Algorithm::Dependency implements algorithms relating to dependency
    heirachies. To use this framework, all you need is a source for the
    master list of all the items, and a list of those already selected. If
    your dependency heirachy doesn't require the concept of items that are
    already selected, simply don't pass anything to the constructor for it.

    Please note that the class Algorithm::Dependency does NOT implement an
    ordering, for speed and simplicity reasons. That is, the "schedule" it
    provides is not in any particular order. If item 'A' depends on item
    'B', it will not place B before A in the schedule. This makes it
    unsuitable for things like software installers, as they typically would
    need B to be installed before A, or the installation of A would fail.

    For dependency heirachies requiring the items to be acted on in a
    particular order, either top down or bottom up, see
    Algorithm::Dependency::Ordered. It should be more applicable for your
    needs. This is the the subclass you would probably use to implement a
    simple ( non-versioned ) package installation system. Please note that
    an ordered heirachy has additional constraints. For example, circular
    dependencies ARE legal in a non-ordered heirachy, but ARE NOT legal in
    an ordered heirachy.

  Extending
    A module for creating a source from a simple flat file is included. For
    details see Algorithm::Dependency::Source::File. Information on creating
    a source for your particular use is in Algorithm::Dependency::Source.

METHODS
  new %args
    The constructor creates a new context object for the dependency
    algorithms to act in. It takes as argument a series of options for
    creating the object.

    source => $Source
        The only compulsory option is the source of the dependency items.
        This is an object of a subclass of Algorithm::Dependency::Source. In
        practical terms, this means you will create the source object before
        creating the Algorithm::Dependency object.

    selected => [ 'A', 'B', 'C', etc... ]
        The "selected" option provides a list of those items that have
        already been 'selected', acted upon, installed, or whatever. If
        another item depends on one in this list, we don't have to include
        it in the output of the "schedule" or "depends" methods.

    ignore_orphans => 1
        Normally, the item source is expected to be largely perfect and
        error free. An 'orphan' is an item name that appears as a dependency
        of another item, but doesn't exist, or has been deleted.

        By providing the "ignore_orphans" flag, orphans are simply ignored.
        Without the "ignore_orphans" flag, an error will be returned if an
        orphan is found.

    The "new" constructor returns a new Algorithm::Dependency object on
    success, or "undef" on error.

  source
    The "source" method retrieves the Algorithm::Dependency::Source object
    for the algorithm context.

  selected_list
    The "selected_list" method returns, as a list and in alphabetical order,
    the list of the names of the selected items.

  selected $name
    Given an item name, the "selected" method will return true if the item
    is selected, false is not, or "undef" if the item does not exist, or an
    error occurs.

  item $name
    The "item" method fetches and returns the item object, as specified by
    the name argument.

    Returns an Algorithm::Dependency::Item object on success, or "undef" if
    an item does not exist for the argument provided.

  depends $name1, ..., $nameN
    Given a list of one or more item names, the "depends" method will return
    a reference to an array containing a list of the names of all the OTHER
    items that also have to be selected to meet dependencies.

    That is, if item A depends on B and C then the "depends" method would
    return a reference to an array with B and C. ( "[ 'B', 'C' ]" )

    If multiple item names are provided, the same applies. The list returned
    will not contain duplicates.

    The method returns a reference to an array of item names on success, a
    reference to an empty array if no other items are needed, or "undef" on
    error.

  schedule $name1, ..., $nameN
    Given a list of one or more item names, the "depends" method will
    return, as a reference to an array, the ordered list of items you should
    act upon.

    This would be the original names provided, plus those added to satisfy
    dependencies, in the prefered order of action. For the normal algorithm,
    where order it not important, this is alphabetical order. This makes it
    easier for someone watching a program operate on the items to determine
    how far you are through the task and makes any logs easier to read.

    If any of the names you provided in the arguments is already selected,
    it will not be included in the list.

    The method returns a reference to an array of item names on success, a
    reference to an empty array if no items need to be acted upon, or
    "undef" on error.

  schedule_all;
    The "schedule_all" method acts the same as the "schedule" method, but
    returns a schedule that selected all the so-far unselected items.

TO DO
    Add the "check_source" method, to verify the integrity of the source.

    Possibly add Algorithm::Dependency::Versions, to implement an ordered
    dependency tree with versions, like for perl modules.

    Currently readonly. Make the whole thing writable, so the module can be
    used as the core of an actual dependency application, as opposed to just
    being a tool.

SUPPORT
    Bugs should be submitted via the CPAN bug tracker, located at

    <http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/ReportBug.html?Queue=Algorithm-Dependency>

    For general comments, contact the author.

AUTHOR
    Adam Kennedy <adamk@cpan.org>

SEE ALSO
    Algorithm::Dependency::Ordered, Algorithm::Dependency::Item,
    Algorithm::Dependency::Source, Algorithm::Dependency::Source::File

COPYRIGHT
    Copyright 2003 - 2009 Adam Kennedy.

    This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
    under the same terms as Perl itself.

    The full text of the license can be found in the LICENSE file included
    with this module.

