-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA1


Mail::Abuse - A suite of tools to parse and process abuse reports

Abuse desks  charged with the  task of responding to  abuse complaints
against its users face a time consuming and complex challenge. It's my
belief that  this is one of  the contributing reasons  for the general
lack of  response that can be  observed in many  network operations in
these days.

I wrote this  module bundle to help with the first  steps of the abuse
management process,  namely the correlation and  identification of the
abuse sources within your own  network. This is discussed in much more
detail  on  my  3   part  article  "Implementing  an  Effective  Abuse
Management Process", published in  SysAdmin magazine on June, July and
August 2005. You  should grab it if you have a  chance, as this series
also includes a tutorial on how to set up your Mail::Abuse platform.

This bundle includes various  modules with different purposes, as seen
below:

  Mail::Abuse		- Main class, where docs for the package are
			  kept

	::Report	- The "coordinator" class that encapsulates
			  the read - parse - filter - process cycle
			  automatically.

	::Incident	- Base class for all the parsers. A parser can
			  obtain individual incidents from a report by
			  analyzing its text.

		::*	- This package includes various incident
			  parsers. New additions will be inclued in
			  the Mail::Abuse manpage.

	::Filter	- Base class for incident filters. This allows
			  the software to discard incidents which are
			  not interesting to you.

		::*	- The incident filters that are included with
			  this package.

	::Reader	- Base class for all report readers. A reader
			  fetches a message and adds it to a Report
			  object so that the cycle can be executed.

		::*	- The different readers included with this
			  distribution. You'll be most interested in
			  Mail::Abuse::Reader::POP3, which can detch
			  reports from a POP3 mailbox.

	::Processor	- The base class for all the
			  processors. Processors can act on each
			  individual report or incident.

		::*	- The processors included in this bundle. 

I would love  to see the maintainers from  log aggregation services to
also  write  a  corresponding  ::Incident::myAggregator so  that  more
people can start responding to their messages quickly.

Additionally to the modules, a number of scripts that should be useful
to people  managing abuse  desks is included.   See the  included bin/
directory  for  more information,  as  each  script  includes its  own
documentation. These  scripts are not  intended to abuse  or otherwise
sabotage any  site or  facility. You should  seek permission  from the
corresponding  site   owners  if  bulk  usage  of   these  scripts  is
expected. You'll understand this warning a bit better when you look at
the scripts.

To install, follow the standard CPAN recipe of:

$ perl Makefile.PL
$ make
$ make test

If all tests pass, then do

$ make install

The test suite  includes a lot of cases.  Note  that all tests require
Test::More. The  module's documentation  can be accessed  through POD.
After installing the module, you can do

$ perldoc Mail::Abuse

to access the  documentation. Of course, there are  many other modules
inside. Each one has its own documentation.

Bug  reports  are  welcome. Please  do  not  forget  to tell  me  what
version/platform are you running this code on. Providing a small piece
of  code that  shows the  bug helps  me a  lot in  sorting it  out and
possibly in writting more tests for the distribution. And *definitely*
include the abuse report that caused the problem.

Also, this code is intended to be strict and -w safe, so please report
cases where warnings are generated so that I can fix them.

Report your bugs to me (luismunoz@cpan.org).

DO YOU WANT TO THANK ME?

If  you consider this  a valuable  contribution, there  is a  web page
where you can express your gratitude. Please see

	http://mipagina.cantv.net/lem/thanks-en.html (English)
	http://mipagina.cantv.net/lem/thanks-es.html (Spanish)

SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS

I  have  no control  on  the machanisms  involved  in  the storage  or
transport  of this distribution.  This means  that I  cannot guarantee
that  the distribution  you have  in your  hands is  indeed,  the same
distribution I packed and uploaded.

Along the distribution file, you should have a file with the extension
".asc".   This  contains a  GPG  "detached  signature"  that makes  it
impossible for anybody to alter  this distribution.  If security is of
any concern to you, by all means verify the signature of this file and
contact the author if any discrepancy is detected.

You can find more information about this at the following URL

             http://mipagina.cantv.net/lem/gpg/

This  information includes  the correct  keys,  fingerprints, etc.Note
that this README file should also be signed.

LICENSE AND WARRANTY

This software is (c) Luis E. Muñoz.  It can be used under the terms of
the perl artistic license provided  that proper credit for the work of
the  author is  preserved in  the form  of this  copyright  notice and
license for this module.

No warranty of any kind is  expressed or implied. This code might make
your computer go up in a puff of black smoke.
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: GnuPG v1.2.1 (Darwin)

iD8DBQFELUbGQyDWGRI/hhARArTRAJ4mthg/GpLsVMuwvb/vEG2xMP5LNwCfa94s
jcEAsr19Q3A0VHbkoMnkVU4=
=RbOQ
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----
