Migrating from RT 2.0 to RT 3.x 

You can use make install to install the two scripts in this package.
It may be easier to work from withing the distribution instead, in case you 
need to modify anything in the scripts.

This tool migrates your RT2 instance to an RT 3.x instance. It transfers:

	Users
	Groups
	Queues
	Rights
	Tickets
	Custom Fields (Formerly Keywords)
	ACLs
	BASIC Scrips

It does NOT automatically migrate:

	Custom templates, 
	Custom Scrips, 
	Custom ScripActions, 
	Custom ScripConditions



Create a directory to hold your RT2 database dump. Here we'll refer to it as
DIRNAME. Anywhere you see the string  "DIRNAME", replace it with the path to
your directory.

Tell rt-2.0-to-dumpfile where your RT libraries live. (Edit the 'use lib' lines)

Execute:
rt-2.0-to-dumpfile  DIRNAME

DIRNAME will now contain one file called "metadata" and several subdirectories
which contain about 1000 files, 1 file per ticket.


Install rt3. Let it set up your rt3 database.

Tell dumpfile-to-rt-3.0 where your RT libraries live. (Edit the 'use lib' lines)

If your RT instance contains tickets encoded in a characterset other than
"IS0-8859-1", you'll want to edit the value of $ENCODING in dumpfile-to-rt-3.0.


Execute:
dumpfile-to-rt-3.0 DIRNAME

Watch it spin.  If it crashes, please send a crashdump to rt-devel@lists.fsck.com
Importing is a heavy-weight process and for large databases can run for a very
long time. (Huge imports can take over 24 hours to run.) The import toolset now
ships with an "incremental" mode. The incremental mode will take care of any
users or tickets which have changed since the specified date. Once your initial
export has run, perform a secondary export:

rt-2.0-to-dumpfile NEWDIRNAME since 2003-01-01 

         (replace that date with the date before the initial export)

Then execute:

dumpfile-to-rt-3.0 NEWDIRNAME

It's important to note that this incremental importer _mandates_ that queues,
keyword selects, links and queue watchers not be changed on either RT instance
during the export/import period.

If you're using a database such as Postgres or Oracle that has
explicit sequence support, you may need to set the value of each
table's sequence to the MAX(id) for that table

MERGING

This release of rt2-to-rt3 supports merging your RT2 instance into an existing
RT3 instance.  You should create your RT2 dump as above:

rt-2.0-to-dumpfile DIRNAME

You will need to set $merge_on_import in dumpfile-to-rt-3.0 to a true value
Then you can run 

dumpfile-to-rt-3.0 DIRNAME

The importer will do extra work to handle renumbering your tickets and looking
for queues that might already exist in your new RT instance

CUSTOM CODE ON IMPORT

If you want to do custom changes to your data during the import, there are some
new hooks for this.  Create a file that defines any of the following subroutines

sub client_setup
sub client_import_queue
sub client_import_user
sub client_import_ticket
sub client_import_ticket_extra

tell the importer about this file by passing it as the second argument

dumpfile-to-rt-3.0 DIRNAME PATH/TO/FIlE/WITH/CUSTOMCODE

These can be used to create new groups, assign all users to a group,
assign all tickets a new CustomField.

You can find some example code using these hooks in the examples directory

Bug reports and problems should be sent to rt-devel@lists.bestpractical.com
