NAME

    Dist::Zilla::Plugin::ArchiveTar - Create dist archives using
    Archive::Tar

VERSION

    version 0.03

SYNOPSIS

    In your dist.ini

     [ArchiveTar]

DESCRIPTION

    This Dist::Zilla plugin overrides the build in archive builder and uses
    Archive::Tar only. Although Dist::Zilla does frequently use
    Archive::Tar itself, it is different from the built in version in the
    following ways:

    Predictable

      The built in behavior will sometimes use Archive::Tar or
      Archive::Tar::Wrapper. The problem with Archive::Tar::Wrapper is that
      it depends on the system implementation of tar, which in some cases
      can produce archives that are not readable by older implementations
      of tar. In particular GNU tar which is typically the default on Linux
      systems includes unnecessary features that break tar on HP-UX. (You
      should probably be getting off HP-UX if you are still using it in
      2021 as I write this).

    Sorted by name

      The contents of the archive are sorted by name instead of being
      sorted by filename length. While sorting by length makes for a pretty
      display when they are unpacked, I find it harder to find stuff when
      the content is listed.

    Additional formats

      This plugin supports the use of compression formats supported by
      Archive::Tar.

PROPERTIES

 format

     [ArchiveTar]
     format = tar.gz

    Sets the output format. The default, most common and easiest to unpack
    for cpan clients is tar.gz. You should consider carefully before not
    using the default. Supported formats:

    tar

    tar.gz

    tar.bz2

    tar.xz

SEE ALSO

    Archive::Libarchive

    Dist::Zilla

    Dist::Zilla::Plugin::Libarchive

    Dist::Zilla::Role::ArchiveBuilder

AUTHOR

    Graham Ollis <plicease@cpan.org>

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

    This software is copyright (c) 2021 by Graham Ollis.

    This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
    the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

