This directory contains a little Java project and the Java::Build tools
needed to build it.  The build process is overkill in this case, but
it shows you the pieces.  If your life is like mine, your projects are
much more "interesting" than this one.

To try out the application type:
export CLASSPATH=$CLASSPATH:/path/suns/tools.jar
perl Makefile.PL
make
make test
cd demo
./build.driver
java -cp screen:common/common.jar com.example.screen.Main screen.txt char

The rest of this file describes in some detail the files in this directory.

build.config
This file describes the subprojects in the project.  These descriptors
are exhibited in a list of hash references in the order they should be built.
You can see by reading the file that there are two projects: common and
screen (see below).  The PROJECT_DIR is none other than this dir.
BUILD_SUCCESS can be any writable file, it will be overwritten with build
status (namely the name of the last successful build step).  If your
project needs custom build steps, include the code here.  In that case it
might be better to inherit from MyBuild so that overriding methods won't
result in warnings.

build.driver
This is the driver of the build (that means you run it to do a build).
It uses MyBuild (see below) and requires build.config (see above).
This file exists to specify the order of the steps in a build which
are listed in the call to targets.  It also makes a MyBuild object (which
is just the config hash blessed into MyBuild).  Finally, it calls GO with
whatever you specify on the command line.  The things you specify are
steps named in the call to targets.

common
This is directory where the common code lives.  The common code is under
com/example/common.  It includes two layout managers and a special JLabel.
Feel free to have a peek at the code.

common/common.jar
This file will only appear when you build successfully.  It contains
all the class files under the common directory.

demo.log
After you run at least one build, this file will show the steps in
the build.  It's not very good, it's not timestamped for example.  Feel
free to use a better logging scheme.

_Inline
You don't need to worry about this directory.  It is here, because I used
Inline::Java to gain access to a single JVM for compiling.  You can
remove it at any time, Inline::Java will replace it when you run build.driver
again.  (If you supplied a directory for Inline to use during Makefile.PL,
it will be used instead.)

MyBuild.pm
This is where the steps in the build are implemented.  The key is the set
of subroutines whose names match the steps in the targets call in
build.driver.  It also makes sure that the required elements are in
the hash at construction time.  It could provide defaults, by including
different coderefs in the @attrs array.  Instead, each coderef kills
the driver with a nasty message.

The constructor has the three key steps of a custom build driver:
    1. set the ATTRIBUTES key in the project hash
    2. call Java::Build::GenericBuild::process_attrs on the hash
       (it actually enforces the attributes, by calling the coderef
       for any missing key)
    3. blesses the object and returns it to the caller

README
This file.

screen
Home of the screen application code.  It's actually in
screen/com/example/screen/Main.java.  This application displays text
fields on the screen using the common code for its label component and
layout.

screen.txt
A little file for use in testing the application.

