NAME

    report-prereqs - report prerequisite versions

VERSION

    Version 0.008

SYNOPSIS

    report-prereqs [--with-{develop,feature=id}] [URL]

DESCRIPTION

    The report-prereqs utility will examine a cpanfile, META.json, or
    META.yml file for prerequisites with Module::CPANfile respectively
    CPAN::Meta. It reports the version of all modules listed as
    prerequisites (including 'recommends', 'suggests', etc.). However, any
    'develop' prerequisites are not reported, unless they show up in
    another category or the --with-develop option is used.

    Option --with-feature enables optional features provided by a CPAN
    distribution. Option may be used more than once.

    Versions are reported based on the result of parse_version from
    ExtUtils::MakeMaker, which means prerequisite modules are not actually
    loaded. Parse errors are reported as "undef". If a module is not
    installed, "missing" is reported instead of a version string.

    Additionally, unfulfilled required prerequisites are reported after the
    list of all versions.

OPTIONS

    --cpanfile [ FILENAME ]

      Parse the filename with Module::CPANfile instead of the default
      behavior. If the filename is omitted it defaults to cpanfile - which
      is also the default.

      Can not be used together with --meta or a url.

    --meta [ FILENAME ]

      Parse the filename with CPAN::Meta instead of the default behavior.
      If the filename is omitted it defaults to META.json.

      Can not be used together with --cpanfile or a url.

    --with-develop

      Also report develop prerequisites.

    --with-feature String: Name

      Specify optional feature to enable. Option may be used more than
      once.

EXIT STATUS

    The report-prereqs utility exits 0 on success, 1 if an error occurs,
    and 2 if invalid command line options were specified.

    The state of the prerequisites does have no effect on the exist status.

EXAMPLES

 Example 1 Using this on Travis CI with AUTHOR_TESTING

    Add the following lines to .travis.yml right before your tests are run,
    after all your dependencies are installed.

        - cpanm --verbose --notest --skip-satisfied App::ReportPrereqs
        - report-prereqs --with-develop

 Example 2 Using this on Travis CI without AUTHOR_TESTING

    Add the following lines to .travis.yml right before your tests are run,
    after all your dependencies are installed.

        - cpanm --verbose --notest --skip-satisfied App::ReportPrereqs
        - report-prereqs

 Example 3 Using this on AppVeyor with AUTHOR_TESTING

    Add the following lines to .appveyor.yml right before your tests are
    run, after all your dependencies are installed.

        - perl -S cpanm --verbose --notest --skip-satisfied App::ReportPrereqs
        - perl -S report-prereqs --with-develop

 Example 4 Using this on AppVeyor without AUTHOR_TESTING

    Add the following lines to .appveyor.yml right before your tests are
    run, after all your dependencies are installed.

        - perl -S cpanm --verbose --notest --skip-satisfied App::ReportPrereqs
        - perl -S report-prereqs

 Example 5 Show prerequistes from a cpanfile url

        report-prereqs https://raw.githubusercontent.com/skirmess/App-ReportPrereqs/master/cpanfile

 Example 6 Show prerequisites from a MYMETA.json

        report-prereqs --meta MYMETA.json

RATIONALE

 Why this instead of Dist::Zilla::Plugin::Test::ReportPrereqs

    The Test::ReportPrereqs Dist::Zilla plugin adds a test to your
    distribution that prints all the prerequisites version during testing
    of your distribution.

    The goal of this module is to produce the same output on Travis CI and
    AppVeyor without including an additional file to the distribution.

SEE ALSO

    Dist::Zilla::Plugin::Test::ReportPrereqs

SUPPORT

 Bugs / Feature Requests

    Please report any bugs or feature requests through the issue tracker at
    https://github.com/skirmess/App-ReportPrereqs/issues. You will be
    notified automatically of any progress on your issue.

 Source Code

    This is open source software. The code repository is available for
    public review and contribution under the terms of the license.

    https://github.com/skirmess/App-ReportPrereqs

      git clone https://github.com/skirmess/App-ReportPrereqs.git

AUTHOR

    Sven Kirmess <sven.kirmess@kzone.ch>

CONTRIBUTORS

      * Stephan Sachse <ste.sachse@gmail.com>

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

    This software is Copyright (c) 2018-2022 by Sven Kirmess.

    This is free software, licensed under:

      The (two-clause) FreeBSD License

