Module::ConfigureRequires, version 0.03 (beta)

A CPAN distribution's META.yml can contain a configure_requires entry,
that  lists  modules  needed  for  Makefile.PL  or  Build.PL  to  run.

Tools such as CPAN.pm and CPANPLUS automatically read this file,  and
everything just works, *if* you have the latest version.

The problem is that perl 5.10.1 and earlier do not ship with a suffic-
iently recent version of  CPAN.pm,  and even the one that comes  with
5.12.x has problems.

This module attempts to solve  this  problem  by  using  a  different
approach:  The  Makefile  (or  Build  script)  can be made to  re-run
Makefile.PL (or Build.PL),  if it was generated without the necessary
modules, and then re-run the make command.

The Makefile.PL script will,  of course,  have to be able to generate
at least a dummy Makefile  if the configuration prerequisites are not
present,  in order for this to work.  It must also list the configura-
tion prerequisites along with the build-  or  run-time  prerequisites.

So,  this is  how  it  would  work  under  an  old  CPAN  shell  with
this setup:

 1. User types ‘install Your::Module’ at the CPAN shell.
 2. CPAN.pm downloads and unpacks Your::Module.
 3. CPAN.pm runs Makefile.PL.
 4. CPAN.pm installs the modules that  Makefile.PL  claims  it  needs,
    including Some::ConfigurePrereq.
 5. CPAN.pm runs make.
 6. The Makefile runs Makefile.PL, and then re-runs make.
 7. CPAN.pm proceeds with the tests and installation.

See the POD  documentation  in  lib/Module/ConfigureRequires.pod  (or
use perldoc or man after installation) for more information.


CHANGES IN THIS RELEASE

Fixed to work with XS modules that use ExtUtils::MakeMaker.


INSTALLATION

The easiest way to install this module is to use the CPAN  module  or
the cpan script:

    [sudo] perl -MCPAN -e "install Module::ConfigureRequires"

    [sudo] cpan Module::ConfigureRequires

Or you can use the following:

    perl Makefile.PL
    make
    make test
    [sudo] make install


PREREQUISITES

This module requires perl 5 or higher.


DOCUMENTATION

After installing, you can find documentation for this module with the
perldoc command.

    perldoc Module::ConfigureRequires

Or try using man (it’s faster, in my experience):

    man Module::ConfigureRequires


AUTHOR & COPYLEFT

Copyright © 2010 Father Chrysostomos

This program is free software; you may redistribute it, modify it, or
both, under the same terms as perl.
