NAME
    CPAN::Index - Robust and object-oriented access to the CPAN index

DESCRIPTION
    There are many parts of the CPAN toolchain that might benefit from
    convenient access to the CPAN index metadata.

    But for legacy compatibility reasons, most of this metadata is provided
    in the form of three venerable uniquely-formatted text files.

    Generally, this means that if you want access to them, you need to pull
    the files from the CPAN, write a parser, store the objects in memory,
    maybe cache them with Storable, and write your own hash indexing and
    object-walking functions.

    However, with the CPAN still growing, and further accelerating, it is
    becoming increasingly unfeasible to store the CPAN metadata solely in
    memory structures.

    A more robust, richer, and more convenient approach is required.

    CPAN::Index provides object-oriented access to the CPAN index, using a
    collection of relatively common modules, and automates entire process of
    fetching and accessing the index.

    The index is stored in a DBD::SQLite database file, with an object model
    implemented around it using DBIx::Class. To update the index, the
    CPAN::Index::Loader class implements the logic to flush and reset the
    database, fetch the index files, parse them, and repopulate the
    database.

TO DO
    - Write the index file download code

    - Verify CPAN::Index handles index unicode data properly

    - A bunch of other things...

SUPPORT
    Bugs should be reported via the CPAN bug tracker

    <http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/ReportBug.html?Queue=CPAN-Index>

    For other issues, contact the author.

AUTHOR
    Adam Kennedy <cpan@ali.as>

SEE ALSO
    CPAN::Index::Loader, DBD::SQLite, DBIx::Class

COPYRIGHT
    Copyright (c) 2006 Adam Kennedy. All rights reserved.

    This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
    under the same terms as Perl itself.

    The full text of the license can be found in the LICENSE file included
    with this module.

