-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA1




DNS::BL
=======

Modules and  scripts that  ease the maintenance  and operation  of DNS
blacklists. See  perldoc for more information. The  blacklist might be
stored in  a Berkeley DB or  in a DBI-supported  database. Scripts and
instructions are included for installation with MySQL.

The blacklists can be exported  to various formats, to load into name
servers.

INSTALLATION

To install this module type the following:

   perl Makefile.PL
   make
   make test
   make install

DEPENDENCIES

This module requires these other modules and libraries:

  DBI		(for storing rules in a DBI-supported database)
  Test::More	(for improved testing)
  BerkeleyDB	(for storing rules in a Berkeley DB)
  NetAddr::IP

Some  particular  features  require  one  or  more  of  the  following
modules. If  you do not  have those modules installed,  these features
won't be available.

  Test::POD	(recommended for testing the documentation)

SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS

I  have  no control  on  the machanisms  involved  in  the storage  or
transport  of this distribution.  This means  that I  cannot guarantee
that  the distribution  you have  in your  hands is  indeed,  the same
distribution I packed and uploaded.

Along the distribution file, you should have a file with the extension
".asc".   This  contains a  GPG  "detached  signature"  that makes  it
impossible for anybody to alter  this distribution.  If security is of
any concern to you, by all means verify the signature of this file and
contact the author if any discrepancy is detected.

You can find more information about this at the following URL

             http://mipagina.cantv.net/lem/gpg/

This information  includes the  correct keys, fingerprints,  etc. Note
that this README file should also be signed.

DNS BLOCK LIST MANAGEMENT

Managing your  own DNS  Block List (DNSBL)  is not something  you must
undertake lightly.  This software  is provided with  the hope  that it
makes this task easier. However, understand that the management of the
DNSBL data is actually the easiest part.

A  succesful DNSBL,  specially one  protecting public  email,  must be
supported by a  clear listing and delisting policy.  This is something
you must provide by yourself.

At this  time, the  Berkeley DB backend  is somewhat stable  and quite
usable, up  to a few thousand  entries. This shouls allow  you to "get
your  feet  wet" in  setting  up  the  script environment  that  often
surrounds the maintenance of private DNSBLs.

At some point, you must transition from the Berkeley DB backend to the
DBI  backend, so  that  you can  store  your DNSBL  information in  an
external database.

This  two-step  approach  eases  the  learning  curve  and  the  usual
difficulty that is usually  associated with setting up and maintaining
your DNSBL.

COPYRIGHT AND LICENCE

Copyright (C) 2004 Luis Muñoz

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself. 


-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: GnuPG v1.2.1 (Darwin)

iD8DBQFBzGwpQyDWGRI/hhARAndcAJ9z1BLXCfBkYYSZNEtnTHcxilZTIwCgl8jD
B+Iy5BISTvOdZWjRWIg8kpI=
=JXMy
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----
