NAME
    Perl::Metrics2 - Perl metrics storage and processing engine

DESCRIPTION
    THIS IS AN EXPERIMENTAL MODULE AND MAY CHANGE WITHOUT NOTICE

    Perl::Metrics2 is a 2nd-generation implementation of the Perl Code
    Metrics System.

    The Perl Code Metrics System is a module which provides a Perl document
    metrics processing engine, and a database in which to store the
    resulting metrics data.

    The intent is to be able to take a large collection of Perl documents,
    and relatively easily parse the files and run a series of processes on
    the documents.

    The resulting data can then be stored, and later used to generate useful
    information about the documents.

  General Structure
    Perl::Metrics2 consists of two primary elements. Firstly, an ORLite
    database that stores the metrics informationg.

    See Perl::Metrics2::FileMetrics for the data class stored in the
    database.

    The second element is a plugin structure for creating metrics packages,
    so that the metrics capture can be done independant of the underlying
    mechanisms used for parsing, storage and analysis.

    See Perl::Metrics2::Plugin for more information.

  Getting Started
    "Perl::Metrics2" comes with on default plugin,
    Perl::Metrics2::Plugin::Core, which provides a sampling of metrics.

    To get started load the module, providing the database location as a
    param (it will create it if needed). Then call the "process_directory"
    method, providing it with an absolute path to a directory of Perl code
    on the local filesystem.

    "Perl::Metrics" will work on the files in the directory, and when it
    finishes you will have a nice database full of metrics data about your
    files.

    Of course, how you actually USE that data is up to you, but you can
    query Perl::Metrics2::FileMetric just like any other ORLite database
    once you have collected it all.

METHODS
SUPPORT
    Bugs should be reported via the CPAN bug tracker at

    <http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/ReportBug.html?Queue=Perl-Metrics2>

    For other issues, contact the author.

AUTHOR
    Adam Kennedy <adamk@cpan.org>

COPYRIGHT
    Copyright 2009 Adam Kennedy.

    This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
    under the same terms as Perl itself.

    The full text of the license can be found in the LICENSE file included
    with this module.

