Alien-SeleniumRC is a package containing the Java based Selenium Server
for use in Selenium Remote Control.

From the Selenium RC website: http://openqa.org/selenium-rc

  Selenium Remote Control a test tool that allows you to write automated
  web application UI tests in any programming language against any HTTP
  website using any mainstream JavaScript-enabled browser.

  Selenium Remote Control provides a Selenium Server, which can
  automatically start/stop/control any supported browser. It works by
  using Selenium Core, a pure-HTML+JS library that performs automated
  tasks in JavaScript.

  The Selenium Server communicates directly with the browser using AJAX
  (XmlHttpRequest). You can send commands directly to the Server using
  simple HTTP GET/POST requests; that means that you can use any
  programming language that can make HTTP requests to automate Selenium
  tests on the browser. To further ease this process, we provide wrapper
  objects for a number of mainstream programming languages (Perl, Java,
  .NET, Python, and Ruby).

  Finally, the Selenium Server acts as a client-configured HTTP proxy, to
  stand in between the browser and your website. This allows a
  Selenium-enabled browser to run JavaScript on arbitrary websites.

  The Selenium Server is great for testing complex AJAX-based web user
  interfaces under a Continuous Integration system. It is also an ideal
  solution for users of Selenium Core or Selenium IDE who want write tests
  in a more expressive programming language than the Selenese HTML table
  format customarily used with Selenium Core.

Selenium-RC is released under the Apache 2.0 license:
http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

This package assumes that Java is installed on the system and that
'java' is available on the command line.

The server will attempt to launch browsers, so make sure they're there.

To install:

    perl Makefile.PL
    make
    make test
    make install


Using the Selenium Server

Alien::SeleniumRC bundles a script called selenium-rc which will launch
the bundled selenium-server.jar server.  Any arguments given to
selenium-rc will be passed through to java.

Start the server:

  selenium-rc

See options:

  selenium-rc -help

Run server on alternate port:

  selenium-rc -port 1234


Copyright (c) 2006 Luke Closs <lukec@cpan.org>.
This package is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.
